#(231)
.	CONFIDENTIAL
Ii\3.e Office of The Judge Advocatd(^/neral for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review
ETO 292
Z 3 FEB 1943
UNITED STATES )
v.	)
)
Private 1st Class SAMMXE MICKLES ) (3U021930), 226th Q.M. Company, ) (Salv.Coll). *	)
SERVICES OF SUPPLT EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Glasgow, Scotlamd, 29 December 19h2. Sentence:
To be dishonorably discharged the service; total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be hanged by the neck until dead.
OPINION of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above, having been referred by the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, the confirming authority, prior to his action thereon and pursuant to the provisions of Article of War U6, to the Judge Advocate General, in charge of the Office of The Judge Advocate General fo^the European Theater of Operations^ who, under the provisions of the last paragraph of Article of War 50u-, has, with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, and, to the end that the accused should have an independent review of the record of his trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in keeping with the spirit of Article of War f?0^, having been referred by the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations to the Board of Review for examination and review, has been examined by the Board of Review, which submits this, its opinion and holding thereon, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	92nd	Article	of	War.
Specification:	In that Private First Class Sanmie
Mickles, 226th Q.M. Co., (Salv. Coll), did, at Glasgow, Scotland, on or about 18 November 19l|.2, with-malice aforethought, wilfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully and with premeditation kill one Jan Ciapciak, a human being by stabbing him with a knife.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
292
0O ,i n a w — 1 —
(232)
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged from the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be hanged by the neck until dead, at such time and place as may meet the convenience of the reviewing authority. The reviewing authority approved the sentence except the words "at such time and place as may meet the convenience of the reviewing authority”, the inclusion of which was disapproved.
3.	The homicide involved in this case was committed on Argyle Street in Glasgow, Scotland, and the locus thereof was described by Mr. Frank Dow, a Detective Lieutenant of the Glasgow-City Police (R.2, 3, h)» He submitted a sketch of the locus in support of his testimony which was admitted in evidence as Prosecution's Exhibit 1 (R.3), but same is not attached to the record of trial.
Argyle Street extends east and west. An elevated railroad bridge which has a width of about 16£ feet crosses Argyle Street above the street level between Union and Hope Streets (R.3).
Hope Street, which has a north and south direction, intersects Argyle Street about hS ft. west of the bridge. Union Street is likewise a north and south street and it intersects Argyle Street about 32 ft. east of the bridge (R.3). The "Penny Arcade", an amusement place, is located on the south side of Argyle Street in near proximity and east of the bridge and adjoining it is an alley which runs southward from the south line of Argyle Street towards Midland Street (R.3). That part of Argyle Street under the railroad bridge is in partial darkness, but during the evening such part is illuminated to a certain extent (R.3). Underneath the bridge there are stores on each side of the street (R.U), and also stairways which lead to both the high and low levels of the Central Railroad Station which is located east of the railroad bridge (R.3) and is transpierced by the street (R.3).
Ii.	Accused was on and prior to 18 Nov. 19U2 a member of the 226th Q.M. Company (Salv. Coll) which was stationed at Camp Pollock, near Glasgow, Scotland (R.29). Between the hours of 7:30 p.m., and 8:00 p.m., on said date accused arrived at the "Penny Arcade".
R.32, I4O, $0). He was then carrying a knife (R.32, I4I) which had a blade about one inch wide and 5 inches long (R.32, 33, UO). It was not a folding knife, but a long, straight knife like a hunting knife (R.lil). Between 8:00 p.m., and 9:00 p.m., accused while in the "Arcade" became involved in an argument with a civilian and displayed this knife (R.32, I4I). The "Arcade" closed about 10:00 p.m. (R.31) and at that hour accused and Privates Percy Kraft and Leon Childs of the 226th Q.M. Company (Salv. Coll) were on the north side walk of Argyle Street about opposite the "Penny Arcade" (R.35). Childs was accompanied by a girl, Jean MSLeod, alias Sheina McLeod (R.31, 78). "When the "Arcade" closed these three soldiers and girl were joined by Private John Henry Bolds of the same detahhment (R.31, 35>). The four soldiers and the girl proceeded westward on the north side walk of Argyle Street (R.35) and walked under the railroad bridge (R.35)-*
234995
- 2 -
292
(233)
Mrs. Mary McAlpine Wilkie, who lmew Sheina McLeod. (R.U2,78), was standing on the side-walk under the railroad bridge at 10:d9 p.m., on 18 Not. 19U2 (R.U2, 76) as the soldiers and Sheina McLeod approached from the east.	.	•
5. Jan Ciapciak, (hereinafter designated deceased), a Polisn citizen, was a seaman and a member of the crew of "M.V. Batory" then lying at King George V dock in Glasgow Harbor (R.13). . At 6:30 p.m., on 18 Nov.19U2, deceased and Marcin Edmond Stefanski, also a member of the crew of "M.V. Batory" (R.12), left their ship and proceeded to the "Grant Arms", a public house in Glasgow (R.75) where deceased and his companion each consumed eight drinks of some kind of intoxicating liquor (R.75). By 10:00.p.m., deceased was "feeling very good" but he neither showed signs of intoxication nor was he quarrelsome (R.75)•
The two seamen left the "Grant Arms" sometime after 10:00 p.m. (R.75) and proceeded in a westerly direction on the north side of Argyle Street. They encountered two or three 'unidentified American soldiers who were standing on the side walk under the railroad bridge. Mrs. Wilkie was also standing nearby (R.lj.2, 76). As the deceased and Stefanski neared Mrs. Wilkie, Stefanski was walking about two paces in front of the deceased (R.lU). When opposite Mrs. Wilkie deceased asked her for a cigarette (R.U.2, 1*5, 78). She informed him that "she had none, but referred him to the unidentified American soldiers (R.U2). At this moment, accused, Bolds, Childs, Kraft and Sheina McXeod. joined Mrs. Wilkie (R.31, U2). Deceased then asked the four soldiers for a cigarette (R.U2), and almost simultaneously grasped Sheina Mc Ueod . by the arm and attempted to pull her away (R.U2). Miss’McLeod, appealed to Childs (R.U2), and an argument arose between deceased and Childs ‘(R.31, U2). Accused intervened in the melee that followed and "punched" deceased, and accused, and deceased started to fight (R.U2). Childs and Sheina McLeod left the scene of the altercation(R.31, U3). Deceased kicked one of the soldiers on the ankle R.U3, 5U). At this point Bolds seized Stefanski (R.lU, 25, 31, 37, U3) and the argument ceased (R.31,U3). Immediately thereafter Stefanski- was removed from the scene of the fracas by a civilian (R.lU, 21, 25, 37).
Accused and Bolds then walked eastward on Argyle Street (R.21, 23,
31). Accused informed Bolds he had been stabbed and asked him to go across the street to the allqy adjoining the "Penny Arcade" with him (R.31). Reaching the alley, accused opened his blouse and shirtw Bolds struck a match (R.31) and looked at accused's wound (R.32, 33, 37). Accused said to Bolds that "nobody was going to stab me and get away with it" (R.32, 37), and further, "Come, we'll go across the street"
(R.32). Accused and Bolds crossed the street and went under the railroad bridge where they encountered deceased (R.19, 32). Accused, after identifying deceased said nothing to him, but pulled his knife out of his pocket and stabbed him (R.19, 20, 32, 33, U3, U6).
Deceased immediately fell to the ground (R.19, 22, 31) and. after some civilian had attempted to revive him (R.19, 22), he was carried across the street by two civilians (R.lU, 19, 2U, 76) and as he lay unconscious —-was found by Constable h’illiam Crombie Campbell of the Glasgow Police.
234995	-3.-..	292
Cwf'.i idUUUU.
LkhrlulH i iAL
When Constable Campbell discovered a wound in the region of deceased's heart he called an ambulance and had deceased removed to a hospital (R.10, 11). Deceased was dead before he reached the hospital (R.59). Constable Campbell'wMle on the stand identified accusecT as'laeing one of four "other chaps" who stood near deceased as he lay on the ground (R.12). Stefanski identified deceased the next day at the morgue
(R.15, 17, 6U).
Bolds testified that immediately after accused stabbed deceased he (Bolds) and accused started "down the street" (probably meaning west) and accused wiped blood from the knife (R.32, 3U). The Military Police arrived soon after and took accused. Bolds and Kraft into custody (R.32).
The post-mortem examination of deceased revealed that his death had been caused "from shock and hemorrhage following a penetrating wound of the chest with perforation of the pericardium, or heart sac, and aorta, or principal blood vessel of the body " (R.70).
A physical examination of accused made on 21 Nov. 19U2, showed that he was suffering from a small, healing puncture wound about 3/l6 of an inch in length on the right side of the upper part of the abdomen, (R.70) and it was the opinion of the medical examiner that "the condition of the wound is consistent with infliction a few days prior to the examination" (R.71).
6.	The investigating officer was Lieutenant-Colonel Nicholas Biddle, I.G.D., Inspector General, Clyde Area Ports and the Northern District. He was a witness for the prosecution (R.U7) and testified that, in the performance of his duties he interviewed accused on two occasions (R.U8):	20	Nov.	19U2	(R.U7)	and	22 Nov. 19U2 (R.$U).
Lieutenant-Colonel Biddle testified that prior to the first interview he warned accused of his rights under the 2l).th Article of War (R.U7) .
The interview was in the form of interrogations propounded to accused and his answers thereto (R.^0, %k) . They were evidently taken down by a stenographic reporter and then transcribed or they may have been written directly by a typist who heard same. Lieutenant-Colonel Biddle stated:	"After	warning	him	of	his	rights, I proceeded to take
testimony from him, I can't repeat all of the testimony" (R.l;8). The following colloquy between the trial judge advocate and the witness then ensued:
"Q
A
Q
A
Q
A
Would you, by referring to it, would it refresh your recollection any?
I can give you what you are driving at, my closing questions if that is what you want in regard to his rights.
All I had in mind was the questions which you asked him and his answers to you.
All the questions? Oh heavensI
Well, as nearly as you can, what did you ask
him and what did he say to you?
Well, it is about $ or 6 pages of testimony or more than that, and it is impossible for me to recall all my questions and his answers
234995 - A-...
282

(235)
to all of the testimony I took from him on two occasions on two additional dates.” (R.U8)
At this point the Law Member interjected the following remark:
that
."7/hy not read/to the court?
Any objection from the defense?” (R.U8).
Defense Counsel replied:
”1 do impose (sic) this objection. Since
the statement, ---- I	might	ask this question.
(To the court)	I	ask	a	question for the
purpose of the objection?” (R.I4.8).
The Law Member gave his assent (R.U8) and thereupon Defense Counsel asked the witness:
’’Colonel, in the statement, you refer to, does the subject matter constitute confession in ary nature?” (R.U8).
The witness asked permission of the court to answer the question and upon receiving consent, replied:
"Therev^rs two confessions. On the first date, he made a statement, or rather under sworn testimony, and through a series of questions and answers through the testimony, he gave one story of how the stabbing occurred. In the presence of Bolds, on the second day of testimony, he changed his story to coincide with the testimony of Bolds." (R.U8).	•
Thereupon Defense Counsel objected to the receipt of the interrogatories and answers in evidence for the reasons "first, that it in effect compelled the defendant or the accused to testify against himself at the trial, secondly, that no affirmative showing of the voluntary nature of the confession in either case or both cases has been made (R.I4.8).	There then followed the following exchange:
"Prosecution:	As	to that first ground, I
believe that the accused had been warned of his rights.
Law Member:	It	has	been	so	stated	by	the
Inspector General.
Prosecution:	And as to -whether or not there
was any pressure brought to bear as to the answers to the questions, then that could be brought out.
*
Defense:	The	point is gentlemen, if. I may
234995
292
(236)
JVlM *' !*>£	\	\
i* ! iliuii i i^w
mention, is that it has not been brought out yet so far as I.can see in the record the purely voluntary nature of the comfession.
Law Member:	The court rules that that is exactly
the matter presented for the attention of the counsel prior to the noon recess, where you were supposed to get.together about the matters and papers to be brought here without further delay.
You have a stipulation to admit these papers.
Prosecution:	Moreover,	the	stipulation	was	for
the counsel for the defense, that he had seen the names of the witnesses for the prosecution, their address, and their expected testimony on December 22, and subsequent to that.
Law Member: Was not this paper exhibited to the counsel for the defense prior to this trial?
Defense:	That	is	correct.	Yes	sir.
Law Member: Was that statement taken by the Inspector General exhibited to the counsel?
Defense:	Yes	sir,	with	the	other	papers. (R.U9).
The court was closed, and upon being opened the president announced that the Law Member would give the decision of the court.
Law Member:	The	court	was	closed	for the purpose
of discussing and forming an opinion in regard to the objection by the defense. In consideration of the paragraph of our manual in regard to an accused, by making. statements in an official investigation, and I find it on pages 116 and 117, we asked Colonel Biddle the following questions:	Was	there	any	hope	of a reward held
out, or any hope of same. Was there any fear of punishment or injury that you inspired by your investigation that might have had some effect on the accused? (R.U9)
/
Y/itness:	No	sir.
Law Member:	We	consider	the	statement then
admissable, and you may have’ the investigating officer read it. (R.U9).
Q - (Continuing) Colonel, these questions and answers, the answers to the questions, were they purely voluntary od the part of the - _ accused?
234995 s0‘
*' i »
\ It*.
292
i ihi.
(237)
A - Yes sir.
Defenses Have these been marked as exhibits?
Prosecution: No, I was just going to bring that in.
Q - (Continuing) Colonel, I ask you to look * at the papers you have, and tell us if that is, if it states the exact questions which you asked the accused', and his answers to those questions?
A'- Both these statements are the exact questions
and answers I asked the accused on November 20th.
Prosecution:	I	would	like	to	offer those in
evidence as Exhibits 3 and 1*.
Defense:	There is no objection to either of the
purported exhibits.
Received in evidence Prosecution's Exhibits
Nos. 3 and U.
Q - Will you read these then, Colonel? (R.50 - 57)
Lieutenant-Colonel Biddle then proceeded to read into the record the interrogatories propounded to accused and hns answers thereto (R.50 - 57 inci.). At the conclusion of the presentation of the questions and answers Defense Counsel moved that the same be expunged from the record:
"for the reason; and upon the ground that it appears there from the exhibit there, that the statements made therein were not made from purely voluntary basis, but upon a basis of question and answer to a superior officer, or an officer who had been enjoined by his superiors to conduct an inquiry. For the further reason, as with regard to Exhibit h, that the sworn testimony/the said defendant, Sammie Mickles, in Exhibit 3, as read by the witness.xx as follows:
"Q - Have you anything further to say, or anything further to give in this case?
A - No sir.
Q - Do you desire to submit a statement, sworn or unsworn in addition to this?
I move that the record be expunged and removed from this case " (R.58).
234995
- 7 -
292
(238)
;Ul';Ii ihi-
The court closed and upon being reopened the Law Member announced:
"The court was closed, and the objection raised by the Defense Counsel discussed, and the entire court is of the opinion that the papers marked Prosecution Exhibit Number 3 and li, being the'' testimony of the defendant to the inspector . General, Colonel Biddle, be admitted as the testimony of Colonel Biddle. (Underscoring supplied).	The court further asks that defense
counsel, if he has any further objections, may declare same at thi^time with the proviso that he point out line for line, and page for page in the court-martial manual where there is any contravention of 'a law for the admission of these papers as this testimony." (R.58).
Defense Counsel replied:
"I have no further objections." (R.58).
The Law Member responded:
"Vfell, the court calls your attention to the bottom of page 116 relative to the admission by the accused does not treat these papers as a confession, but only as an Inspector General's testimony." (Underscoring supplied). (R.58).
There is presented for consideration the serious question as to whether the objection of Defense Counsel in the first instance to the reading of the Exhibits into the record should have been sustained ' and upon over-ruling the objection whether the motion to strike the same from the record should have been granted. There are however, two. incidental matters which should be first considered: (a) On page 58 of the record of trial the Law Member referred Defense Counsel to the "bottom of page 116 relative to the admission by the accused does not treat these papers as a confession, but only as an Inspector General's testimony." The cited passage from Manual for Courts-Martial reads as follows:
"b. Accused's admissions. - In many instances an accused has made statements which fall short of being acknowledgements of guilt, but which, nevertheless, constitute important admissions as to his connection or possible connection with the offense charged. Such statements are called 'admissions against interest* and are admissible . in the evidence without any showing that they were voluntarily made. Should it, however, be shown, that an admission against interest was procured
234995
8 -
292
by means which the court believes to have been of such character that they may have caused the accused to make a false statement, the court may either exclude or strike out and disregard all evidence of the statement. The following are examples of admissions against interest:	A statement made after arrest by
an accused charged with homicide in a dance hall, that he was in the hall when the homicide occurred; a statement made to a sheriff by an accused charged with desertion that he was ’tired of working for the Government and did not Trent to work for it -any longer.'
The mere fact that the admission was made during an investigation of the charge does not make it inadmissible.” (M.C.M., 1928, sec.Ill;, pgs.116-117).
It is difficult at times to draw a distinction between a '•confession” and an "admission against interest” but the applicable legal principles are well established.
” ’Admissions', in the law of evidence, have been defined as being concessions or voluntary acknowledgments made by a party of the existence of certain facts, and have been said to be direct or express, implied or indirect, or incidental, and either judicial or extra-judicial, the former being such admissions as appear in record in the proceedings of a court. More accurately regarded, they are statements by a party or some one identified with him in legal interest, of the existence of a fact which is relevant to the cause of his adversary."
70T/0” 'Admissions' are distinguished from 'confessions' in that the latter term is used only in criminal cases and properly applies only to acknowledgments of guilt.
(22 C.J., sec.323, pgs. 296, 297).
"Although it may be received in evidence, an admission by word or act of an inculpatory fact from which the jury may or may not infer guilt, but which falls short of being an acknowledgment of guilt is not a confession.
Also an admission of one, but not of all, the essential elements of the crime is not a confession. (16 C.J., sec.lU66, pg. 716).
"A confession is the admission of guilt by the defendant of all the necessary elements of the crime of which he is charged, including the *
234995. 9 _
(240)
wC - ;^l!i i knU
necessary acts and intent. An admission merely admits some fact which connects or tends to connect the defendant with the offense but not with all of the elements of the crime. State v. Johnson, 95 Utah £72, 83 P. (2nd)1010:
People v.Fowler, 178 Cal. 6£7> 17U P.892; State vs Carroll,
£2 YJyo. 29, 69 P. (2nd)£l|2; State vs. Stevens, 60 Mont.
390, 199 P.2£6.M (State v. Masato Karumai, 126 Pjj2nd)
lOltf, 10£2).
"A confession is an acknowledgment in express terms, by a party in a criminal case, of his guilt of the crime charged, while an admission is a statement by the accused, direct or implied, of facts pertinent to the issue, and tending, in connection with proof of other facts, to prove his guilt.
In other words, an admission, as applied to criminal law, is something less than a confession, and is but.an acknowledgment of some fact or circumstance which in itself is insufficient to authorize a conviction, and which tends only to establish the ultimate fact of guilt. To the credibility of a confession of guilt, it is necessary there should be an animus confitendi, or intention to speak the truth as to the specific charge of guilt. Such intention, however, is not essential to attach credibility to admissions of particular facts, in themselves indifferent, but which go to make up a case on which guilt is assumed to rest.” (2 "Wharton's Criminal Evidence, sec. £80, pg.9£h)*
"A confession is an acknowledgment, in express terms, by a party in a criminal case of the truth of the crime charged, while an admission relates to subordinate facts that.do not constitute guilt in themselves. A confession is an acknowledgment of guilt; while an admission admits material facts but not guilt." (CM lUl7££ (1920), Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-Uo, sec. 39£(10), pg. 2o£).
Considering Prosecution's Exhibits 3 and U (the interrogations propounded accused by Lieutenant Colonel Biddle and accused's answers thereto) (R.£0-£8 incl.) in the light of the foregoing principles it is obvious that the Law Member was clearly in error in his ruling that the same were "admissions against interest." The examination of accused by Lieutenant Colonel Biddle was conducted in the endeavor to secure from him a truthful statement of the events which led to deceased's death. Accused's memory and conscience' were searched by the examination and the information elicited from him revealed all of the elements of the crime for which he stood charged. His statements, although separately made in response to the several questions, produced in sum total a confession of his guilt. Prosecutions Exhibits 3 and U must therefore be considered as confessions and not merely admissions against interest,
(b)	By objection, timely made, Defense Counsel contended that the Prosecution had failed to show that the confessions were voluntarily made and were not secured 'either as a result of threats or compulsion or promises of favors or clemency. The rule governing admissions and
292
(241)
J'lt must appear that the confession was voluntary on the part of the accused. In the discretion of the court a prima facie showing to this effect may be required before evidence of the confession itself is received.. No hard and fast rules for determining whether or not a confession was voluntary are here prescribed. The matter depends largely on the special circumstances of each case. The following general principles are, however, applicable.
A confession not voluntarily made must be rejected; but where the evidence neither indicates the contrary \ nor suggests further inquiry as to the circumstances, ' a confession may be regarded as having been voluntarily grade.
The fact that the confession was made to a military superior or to the representative or agent of such superior will ordinarily be regarded as requiring further inquiry into the circumstances, particularly where the case is one of an enlisted man confessing to a military superior or to the representative or agent of a military superior.
"Evidence that the accused stated that he made the confession freely without hope of reward or fear of punishment, etc., or evidence that the accused was warned just before he made the confession that his confession might be used against him or that he need not answer any questions that might tend to incriminate him is evidence, but not conclusive evidence, that the confession was voluntary." (U.C.M., 1928, sec.lll+a, pg.ll6).
"But the most familiar requisite to the admissibility of a confession is-that it, must have been voluntary; and the onus to show that it was such is upon the prosecution in offering it. A confession is, in a legal sense, 'voluntary* when it is not induced or materially influenced by hope of release or other benefit, or fear of punishment or injury, inspired by one in authority; or, more specifically, where it is not induced or influenced by words or acts, - such as
. promises, assurances, threats, harsh treatment, or the like,- on the part of an official or other person competent to effectuate what is promised, threatened,
&c., or at least believed to be thus competent by the
party confessing. And the reason of the rule is that where the confession is not thus voluntary, there is always ground to believe that it may not be true.
Though confessions are in the majority of cases made to officials holding the party in confinement or arrest, the mere fact that he is in custody at the time of making the confession does not stamp it as involuntary."
"Vfinthrop's Mi iitary Law and Precedents, Reprint 1920,
Pg .328).	292
234995- u -
(242)
The record shows that Lieutenant Colonel Biddle warned accused, of his rights under the 2i;th Article of War and explained them in detail to him (R.U71 50). There is an absence of any evidence in the record that the confessions were obtained as a result of hope or fear engendered in the accused by Lieutenant Colonel Biddle who asserted on the witness stand they were given voluntarily. The Defense did not elect to cross-examine him on this statement. Under this condition of the record the Board of Review is of the opinion that the Prosecution made a prima facie showing that the confessions were voluntary, and that their admission in evidence should not be denied on the claim that they were involuntary. (Cf: "Wilson v. United States, 162 U.S., 613,
622, 623; UO L, Ed. 1090, 10?6).
7.	Having determined that Prosecution’s Exhibits 3 and U are in legal effect confessions and that they were voluntarily given by accused, there remains the question as to whether or not the typewritten questions and answers labeled respectively ’’Sworn testimony of Private Sammie Mickles” (Prosecution’s Ex. 3; R.^O) and ’’Additional Sworn Testimony by Sanmie Mickles” (Prosecution's Ex. U; R»£U) were in such form as to be properly admitted in evidence (R.f>0). Neither of these exhibits were signed by accused. Lieutenant Colonel Biddle stated ”it is impossible for me to recall all my questions and his answers to all of the testimony 1 took from him on two occasions or two additional dates” (R.U8). Later, however, the Trial Judge Advocate asked him:
"Colonel, I ask you to look at the papers you have, and tell us if that is, if it states the exact questions you asked the accused, and his answers to those questions? (R.5>0).
Lieutenant Colonel Biddle replied:
"Both these statements are the exact questions and answers I asked the accused on November 2'Qth" (Underscoring supplied). (R.50).
It appears to the B0ard of Review that Lieutenant Colonel Biddle's statement last above given is a complete authentication of accused's confession and therefore distinguishes this case from CM: ETO 13U,
Stump et al, (decided 27 January 19^3). In that case the Bgard of Review said:
"The reporter or stenographer who took the statements down in shorthand and who transcribed the same did not appear as a witness as to their authenticity.
The record is entirely silent as to whether the statements were true and correct and whether they had been produced
349^ accuraG^ SXii* fidelity*"
In the Stump case the witness who was offered for the purpose of authenticating the alleged written confessions, (which were unsigned by annnsad and in Question and answer form as in the instant case) aid not
292
testify that the questions and answers contained in the purported confessions were the exact questions asked the accused by the witness or that the answers were the exact answers of accused. Neither was there authenticating testimony from the shorthand writer or typist who produced the typewritten transcriptions. This deficiency in proof was removed in the instant case by Lieutenant Colonel Biddle's express and unqualified statement that "both these statements are the exact questions and answers I asked the accused." The Board of Review is therefore of the opinion that the Prosecution's Exhibits 3 and k were admissible in evidence and that the court properly denied accused's motion to strike same from the record.
8.	Prosecution's Exhibit 8 was the report of the post-mortem examination of the body of the deceased. Prosecution's Exhibit 9 was report of the medical examination of the accused. Both examinations were made by John Glaister, a Doctor of Medicine and inter alia Medical Examiner to the Crown. He was called as a witness.and testified that the post-mortem examination was held in the City Mortuary at Glasgow; that deceased's death was produced by shock and hemorrhage resultant upon a wound on the left side of the chest which passed through the pleura of the right lung and the aorta; that he had made a written report on the examination which was true and correct (R.66, 6?). The witness also testified that he had made a physical examination of accused and that he had prepared a true report thereof (R.6?). The exhibits were identified by the witness as being prepared by him. Same were received in evidence and read into the record (R.67-71). Defense Counsel and the court cross-examined the witness extensively on the reports (R.71-710 •
The post-mortem was held on 19 November 19U2; and the report thereof was personally prepared by witness of 22 November 19kZ. The examination of accused was on 21 November 19U2, and the report thereof, also personally prepared by witness on the same date.
Wigmore declares that "a past recollection $£ x xx&xoaEC recorded may be used, subject to the precautions for securing the adequacy of the recollection and the,accuracy and the identity of the memorandum; as follows:
Art. 1. The memorandum must have been made when the matter was fairly fresh in the recollection; but the time depends on the circumstances of each case ---.
Art. 2. The witness must be able to say that he believed the memorandum correct at that time; either (1) by now remembering that belief
Art. 3. The witness must be qualified by personal observation of the matter recorded^HHHKHHS-". (Wigmore, Code of Evidence, Rule 93, pg. lUU).
Dr. Glaister made the examinations set forth in the respective reports, aid testified that the reports were true and correct. The report on the death of deceased was prepared within 2 days of the post-mortem examination (Ex. 8) and the report on accused was prepared
234995 -i3-	292
(2U)
on the same day as the physical examination of accused (Ex.9). The principle announced by Y/igmore finds confirmation in 70 C.J. sec. 771, note 33, pg. 600:	Republic	Fire	Ins.	Co.	v. w’eide, 8l U.S. 308,
20 L. Ed. 89U (annotation); 3 YVharton's Criminal Evidence, sec. 1276, pg. 2lU3j 2 VJharton's Criminal Evidence, sec. 803, pg. 1381*.
The court committed no error in admitting in evidence Prosecution's Exhibits 8 and 9.
9.	Corporal Raymond Uayewski, Company E, 347th Engineers (Det) was sworn as an interpreter to interpret the testimony of the witness, Stefanski, a Pole (R12)._ The examination of Stefanski was conducted in the third person and in some instances it appears that the interpreter stated the substance of the witness's answers rather than literal translation thereof. In the course of the examination the interpreter admitted he was having difficulty in getting "the right phrase for him." (E.l3). The Polish vice-consul was present in court and he was thereupon sworn as an assistant interpreter (R.16). Thereafter both the interpreter and assistant interpreter remained in the court room and assisted in the examination of the witness.
The fact that an interpreter uses the third person and states the substance of a witness's answers rather than translating them literally does not necessarily prejudice the rights of the accused. (CM 121332 (1918), Dig. Ops. JAG. 1912-1*0, par.1*73(2), pg. 396), although the better and recommended practice is for counsel to use the second person instead of the third person in addressing a witness.
"In our view the ideal way to examine a witness through an interpreter is. to require the interpreter to be impersonal, and to require the attorneys to address no question nor remark to the interpreter. On the contrary, all questions should be directed to the witness in the second person. These questions should be repeated by the interpreter without any remarks of his 01m. The answer of the witness should be repeated literally by the interpreter in the first person, without any remarks of his own.
That is to say, the interpreter should*be a phonograph for the time being. This method, when followed, results in least confusion in the record. But it is often quite impracticable to enforce it. Some interpreters find it impossible to suspend their‘personality, and they talk of the witness in the third person. The attorneys often forgetfully address their questions to the interpreter, and then ask him what the witness said. It is a time when ...
'common sense'. . . is a great desideratum, and it needs to be well distributed and reasonably active in order to obtain the best results." Gregory v. Chicago, R.I. & P.R.Co.,
121* N.¥. 797, 800, 11*7 Iowa 710, Ann.Cas.l912B 723.
(70	31(a),	Pg.	i*95-U96).
-1)4 —
292
(245)
There was no objection by Defense Counsel as to the method of examination of the witness, Stefanski, through the interpreter, and since there is not even an implication in the record that the substance of the witness's testimony was not correctly presented to the court it is difficult to see how accused suffered any prejudice to his rights.
The presence of both interpreters in the court room at the same time was the equivalent of allowing two •witnesses to be in the court room simultaneously. "An interpreter is a witness for the purpose indicated by the descriptive word." (Birmingham Rwy., Light and P0wer Co. v. Jung, 161 Alabama U6l, I;9 Southern h3k, UUO). The exclusion of witnesses from the court room is within the discretion of the court and its action "is not subject to review except in case of manifest abuse and prejudice to the party complaining." (6i| C.J., sec.127, pg.118). In this instance the allowing of both interpreters in the court at the same time was within the discretionary powers of the court, and in the absence of direct showing that such action was prejudicial to the rights of accused the matter is not for consideration by the Board of Review.
10.	Lieutenant Colonel John D. Boger (0-1U6652) Medical Corps was detailed to the court (SO No.l6, 13 Dec 19U2, Hq. SOS, ETOUSA). The record of trial shows that Lieut. Colonel John D. Roger (0-llj.66f>2) M.C., was excused from attendance by verbal order of commanding officer. This is an obvious typographical error in the record. The officer who was designated as a member of the court and the officer who was excused from the trial are otherwise identified as the same person.
11.	Considering the instant case on its merits, the fundamental
and important question involved is obvious upon a reading of the record of trial:	is the evidence legally sufficient to sustain the finding
that accused was guilty of murder or does it only prove that accused was guilty of manslaughter, a lesser included offense?
Murder is defined thus:
"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. 'Unlawful* means without legal justification or excuse*-::-::-. Among the lesser offenses which may be included in a particular charge of murder are manslaughter, certain forms of assault and an attempt to commit murder.***"
(K.C.M., sec.lUS, pg.l62j).
I
"Murder, as defined at common law, and by statutes simply declaratory thereof, consists in the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought." (29 C.J., sec.^9. pg.1083).
"Murder, at common law, is the unlawful killing, by a person of sound memory and discretion, of any reasonable creature in being and under the peace of the State, with malice aforethought,.	23
23499S1?-
either express or implied." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents (2nd Ed,) sec.lOljl, pg.672).
The important element of murder, to wit, "malice aforethought" has been analyzed by authorities as follows:
"The term malice, as ordinarily employed in criminal law, is a strictly legal term, meaning not personal spite or hostility but simply the wrongful intent essential to the commission of crime. When used, however, in connection with the word ’aforethought' or 'prepense', in defining the particular crime of murder, it signifies the same evil intent, as the result of a determined purpose, premeditation, deliberation, or brooding, and therefore as indicating, in the view of the law, a malignant or depraved nature, or, as the early writer, Foster, has expressed it, *a heart regardless of social duty, and fatally bent upon mischief.' The deliberate purpose need not have been long entertained; it is sufficient if it exist at the moment' of the act. Malice aforethought is either 'express' or •'implied'; express, where the intent, - as manifested by previous enmity, threats, the absence of any or/lufficient provocation, etc.-is to take the life of the particular person killed, or, since a specific purpose to kill is not essential to constitute murder, to inflict upon him some excessive bodily, injury which may naturally result in death; implied, where the intent is to commit a felonious or unlawful act but not to kill ot injure the particular person-iHBJ-;" (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents (2nd Ed.) sec.]Cil*l, pg.673).
"Malice or malice aforethought is the element which distinguishes murder at common law and, commonly, under the statutes defining murder, from other grades of homicides.■jbbbj-" (29 C.J., sec.60, pg.l081j.).
The distinction between murder and voluntary manslaughter is stated as follows
"Manslaughter is distinguished from murder by the absende of deliberation and malice aforethought." (1 Wharton's Criminal Law, sec.U23, pg.6U0).
"Manslaughter is unlawful homicide Tdthout
234995	-	16-
(247)
malice aforethought and is either voluntary or involuntary." (M.C.M., sec.lh9, pg.l6£).
I
"At common law a killing ensuing from sudden transport of passion or heat of blood, if upon sudden combat, was also manslaughter, and the statutory definition of voluntary manslaughter has on some jurisdictions been made expressly to include a killing without malice in a sudden fray. However, a sudden combat is ordinarily considered upon the same footing as other provocations operating to create such passion as temporarily to unseat the judgment." (29 Corpus Juris, sec.11^, pg.1128)
"The proof of homicide, as necessarily involving malice, must show the facts under which the killing was effected, and from the whole facts and circumstances surrounding the killing the jury infers malice or its absence. Malice in connection with the crime of killing is but another name for a certain condition of a man's heart or mind, and as no one can look into the heart or mind of another, the only way to decide upon its condition at the time of a killing is to infer it from the surrounding facts and that inference is one of fact for the jury. The presence or absence of this malice or mental condition marks the boundary which separates the two crimes of murder or manslaughter." (Stevenson v. United States,
162 U.S. 313, 320; Uo L. Ed. 980, 983)
(Of. Jerry Wallace v. United States, 162 U.S.
J466, UO L. Ed. 1039j John Brown v. United States, 159 U.S. 100, hO L. Ed. 90).
The accused, deceased, his friend Stefanski, Mrs. ‘Wilkie, Sheina McLbod,. Bolds, Childs and Kraft met under the railroad bridge.
Deceased grasped Sheina MeLeod by the arm and "tried to pull her away" (R.I4.2).	The McLeod woman appealed to Childs and an argument
between Childs and deceased followed. It was at this point that accused entered the dispute and "punched" deceased. A fight between accused and deceased was tne next episode in the course of events.
It was of short duration, but during the fracas deceased kicked one of the soldiers on the ankle (R.l+3, U£)» Bolds seized Stefanski, who was soon escorted from the scene of'the disorder by other civilians, and the argument ceased (R.31, U3)-
Beyond peradventure, accused bore a flesh wound on the upper right side of his abdomen and at the time of his physical examination (21 Nov.19)42), the condition of the wound was consistent with its infliction a few days prior tnereto (R.70), (Prosecution's Ex. 9)»
It was inflicted by some kind of a sharp instrument which pierced accused's blouse, shirt and undershirt (R.^3, Prosecution's Ex.3). (tofi
234995	-17-
Two wood chisels were removed from deceased's clothing at the morgue (R.62). The accused asserts that deceased stabbed him during the course of this fracas (R.55, 56, 57} Prosecution's Ex. U). Bolds declares that accused, immediately at the conclusion of the fight, stated to him that he had been stabbed (R.31), and that at. accused's request he (Bolds) went with accused to an alley where accused opened his clothes, and by the light of a match Bolds saw the wound (R.31, 32). The only fair and reasonable inference which can be drawn from this evidence is that accused was stabbed by the deceased by the use of one of the chisels during this personal conflict between the two men. There is no evidence in the record which contradicts this factual conclusion.
It also conclusively appears that the conflict between accused and . deceased terminated, when Bolds seized Stefanski who was then taken away by other civilians.	Stef anski states that "one of the boys
grabbed him by the coat, and after they grabbed him by the coat, some civilians came up and took him under the arms and drug him away" (R.ll*). Broughton declares:	"Well,	as	I was passing, I saw 3 soldiers and
2 civilians fighting, and that was the first thing I saw. It seems I saw some civilians get into a fight and some one stopped them, after that, there were-3 soldiers. They moved East, and the other 2 civilians, they moved West" (R.13, 19,. 20, 21). Bolds testifies:
"Then I went over there, I called over to one of the guys.and pulled him out of the way. The argument ceased" (R.31). "It ceased, and we walked dorm the street" (R.37). The accused in his confession finally admitted that Bolds' version of the events is correct. Accused and deceased ceased fighting and immediately thereafter accused and Bolds crossed Argyle Street to an alley where accused showed Bolds his stab v/ound (R.55, Prosecution's Ex.U).
After the examination of accused's wound by Bolds, accused and Bolds recrossed to the North side-walk of Argyle Street and walked in a westerly direction to a point under the railroad bridge (R.19, 32) where accused discovered deceased. Without a word of warning, accused stabbed deceased (R.19, 20, 32, 33, U3, U6) inflicting a mortal wound upon him.
It may be assumed that had accused stabbed deceased in the course of the initial mutual combat and the death of deceased had resulted, that accused would have been guilty of manslaughter and not of murder under the doctrine of CM:	ETO	72,	Farley	and	Jacobs	(decided Nov.5,
19i;2).	Under such assumption the necessary element of "malice afore-
thought" so as to make the homicide murder would have been lacking.
It would have been a killing upon sudden combat ■which operated "to create such passion as temporarily to unseat the judgment". The above assumption is probably more favorable to accused than a strict interpretation of , the evidence justifies. The exceedingly short period of combat coupled with its sudden cessation certainly creates a reasonable inference that accused’s deliberative mental processes and his power of reasoning had not been dethroned by his anger and passion. However, the Board of Review, makes such assumption in order to give the accused the benefit of the doubt. "If there is a reasonable doubt as to the guilt of an accused of a higher or lesser crime the court should convict him of the lesser."
292
2 3 4 9 Q 5
*18-
CuHriulhilKL	(249)
(30 C.J., sec.558, pg.312;	23 C.JJ5, sec.925, pg.206). Under this
assumption accused's passion was aroused by deceased's act in stabbing him to the point where, accused's powers of judgment and reasoning a were temporarily dethroned. If this Impairment of his deliberative faculties was operative "when accused returned to the scene of the combat and administered the fatal blow to deceased, then accused was guilty of manslaughter - not murder. Stated oppositely, if accused's heat of passion had cooled when he stabbed deceased so that he was acting with deliberation and malice aforethought, then he was a murderer.
As has been demonstrated the evidence is uncontradicted that the initial combat ceased, and accused and Bolds crossed the street to the alley. It is also beyond dispute that accused knew he had been stabbed by accused before Bolds made an examination of the wound by the light of a match. Bolds states:
'^Mickles came on down the street with me and he told me he was stabbed and he asked me to go across the street there." (R.31).#*##
"It ceased down, and we walked on down the street.-***** Yes4 That is when he told me he was stabbed." (R.37)
The applicable rule of law is stated thus:
"If before the homicide was committed, defendant's passion had cooled or if there was sufficient time between the provocation and the killing for his passion to cool, the killing will not be attributed to the heat of passion but to malice, and will be murder, although defendant's passion did not actually cool, and this principle is in some jurisdictions embodied in express statutory provisions. The question of cooling time does not arise where there is no adequate provocation, nor where the entire difficulty is one single transaction, nor where.the killing is the result of reflection or deliberation, no matter how soon it follows the provocation. On the other hand, the killing need not follow immediately upon the provocation, and where an interval occurs, the question whether or not it is sufficient for cooling time must be determined by the circumstances attending each particular case.
It is not necessary that the malice of defendant be shown by some act of hostility committed or threatened between the provocation and the killing. The exercise of thought, contrivance, and design in the mode of getting the weapon and replacing it immediately after the killing, or a temporary 2	of	defendant's mind to some other
292
matter, or a reasonable time between the provocation and the killing, both indicate design and malice, rather than a killing in sudden heat.” (29 C.J. sec. 133, pg. 11U7)
''Where the fatal encounter did not immediately follow the provocation, and there is evidence of an outrage on defendant a short time before of sufficient moment to constitute adequate cause, the jury should be instructed to consider whether or not defendant had time to cool his passion before the killing, for if he had such time the act may have been the result of deliberation, which would be murde^ and^ n<jt^ n^anslaughter,*HS**" (30 C.J.
"Cooling time dependent on circumstances* „ YJhether there has been cooling time is eminently a question of fact, varying with the particular case and vdth the condition of the party. There are some provocations which, -with persons of even temperament, lose their power in a few moments; while there are others which rankle in the breast for days and even weeks, producing temporary insanity. Men's temperaments, also, vary greatly as to the duration of hot blood; and it must be remembered that we must determine the question of malice in each case, not by the' standard of an ideal ’reasonable man,' but by that of the party to whom the malice is imputed, A man may be chargeable vdth negligence in not duly weighing circumstances which would have checked his passion, or which, when his passion was aroused, would have caused it more speedily-to subside. But he is not chargeable with malice when he was acting wildly and in hot blood. Hence, whether there has been cooling time, so as to impute to the defendant malice, is to be decided not by an absolute rule, but by the conditions of each case." (1 YiThartoh's Criminal Law (12th Ed.) sec. 609, pg. 821).
From the foregoing statements of the principle of law involved, it will be seen that there are two methods of applying the doctrine of "cooling time":
(a)
The "Reasonable time" rule:	if	there	is	a sufficient period
of time between the provocation and the killing for the accused to "cool his passions" the killing will be attributed to malice and will be murder, and the determination of this reasonable
time is governed by the standard of an ordinary reasonable person.
w O 1 U J D	ri	n	o
- 2o-	292
(251)
(b) The"dependent on circumstances" rule:	"cooling time" is to
be determined by the circumstances and conditions of each case whereby the question of malice is determined not by the standard of a "reasonable man", but by the standard of the accused thereby allowing consideration of the accused’s individual temperament and of all of the circumstances involved in the killing.
The Board of Review is not requited in this case to adopt one of these rules to the exclusion of the other. In fairness to the accused the Board of Review elects to consider the problem on the basis of both rules. Under either rule the questions as to whether there is a cooling time and as to whether or not the accused acted under heat of passion or with malice are essentially questions of 'fact within the exclusive and peculiar province of the court (See authorities cited supra).
(a) The time element involved in the disorder is estimated by witnesses as follows:
Three to five minutes interval between departure of accused and Bolds to moment of stabbing deceased.
Fifteen or twenty minutes from time deceased asked Wilkie for cigarette to actual stabbing.
Five to eight minutes between time commencement of fight and time Stefanski learned of deceased’s fall to ground.
As may be expected, there is some variance between the witnesses in their estimates of the time factor. However, it is manifest that the entire disorder must have occurred within the extreme limit of 20 or 25 minutes.
The interval between the' cessation of the initial combat between accused and deceased and the actilal stabbing of deceased was probably not less than 5 minutes.' The initial fight was of short duration and ended as suddenly as it commenced. Accused apparently knew instantly that he had been stabbed by deceased. He did not continue the fracas, but withdrew to examine his wound. Under such a situation the B0ard of Review cannot say that the Court was not justified in concluding that a sufficient period (although not proved with mathematical accuracy) elapsed within which a reasonable man would "cool his passions". A reference to decided cases in a question of this nature is not vezy helpful inasmuch as a question of fact for the Court is involved.
However, a consideration of cases wherein the accused after adequate
provocation by deceased, departed to secure a weapon and then returned
and killed deceased, indicates that the Court in the instant case did not act
-21-	292
fV‘JdOQ!
’7ITNESS.	PACE OF
RECORD.
Broughton	23,25,27.
Wilkie	U6
Stefanski	76
(252)	CONFIDENTIAL
arbitrarily or -without substantial evidence ,to support its conclusion:
207
Hawkins v. State, 25 Ga/, 71 Am.Dec. 166: Defendant went 250 yards.
Smith v. State, 103 Ala. U, 15 South 8U3s Defendant went 100 yards.
People vs. Kerrigan, lU7' N.Y. 210, Ul N.E. U9U:	Defendant	was absent
from five to fifteen minutes.
State v. Norris, 2 N.C. U29, 1 Am. Dec. 5&U Defendant ran eighty
yards and back.
State v. McCants, 28 S.C.L. 38U:	Defendant walked 225 yards.
People v. Fossetti, 95 Pac. (Cal. App.) 38U:	Defendant	left	room,
procured pistol and returned.
In the foregoing cases the intervals of absence of the accused between the provocation and the killing were held sufficient "cooling time". Therefore, considering the time factor alone and applying to accused in the instant case the standard of an ordinary reasonable person, the Board of Review is of the opinion that there is substantial evidence in the record to sustain the conclusion that sufficient time elapsed to allow accused to "cool his passions" between the time when he was stabbed bjr deceased and the time when he returned and inflicted the mortal wound on deceased.
(b) The Board of Review, however, believes that when the evidence is examined within the purview of the "dependent circumstances" rule that the finding of the Court is on a particularly sound foundation. There is cogent evidence which strikingly reveals the accused's mental processes and the design and malice which motivated his conduct when he stabbed deceased.
.1. In accused's confession (R.55, Prosecution's Ex. U) the following appears:
"Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
"When you went back after showing Bolds where you had been stuck, what were you intending to do?
I was intending, to stick the fellow back.
Is that the' reason you walked by him once and then back again?
Ye3 sir.
When you saw him standing against the wall, was anyone holding him there?
No sir.
You recognized the white man at this time as the white seaman in the blue raincoat as the man who stabbed you?
Yes sir.
When you recognized him, how near were you to him?
I was right up to him.
Did you say anything to him?
Mo sir.	9	09
(253)
Q. VThat did you do?
A. I just stuck him with my knife.
Q. Was the knife in your hand?
A. I walked up to him. I had my hands in my coat pockets and then pulled my knife out of my coat pocket and stabbed him.
Q. Did he make any movement towards you before you stabbed him?
A.	When	I walked up to him, he	had one of his	hands	in
his coat pocket, and one of	his feet stuck	out	aways,
and -when I walked up to him, he pulled his foot back in and I stabbed him.
Q. Did you realize when you stabbed him that it might kill him?
A. No sir, I didn't.
Q.	What	did you think it would	do to him?
A.	Well	sir, I wasn't thinking	at the time.
Q. You just wanted to stab him?
A. I just waited to let him know how it felt when he stabbed me." (R.55, i?6). (Underscoring supplied).
The corpus delicti and the fact that accused killed deceased were established by substantial evidence independent of accused's confessions. The confessions are therefore particularly illuminating in determining accused's mental attitude at the exact moment he stabbed deceased.
(M.C.M., par.llU, pg. 115).
2. Bold's testimony shows that accused knew he had been stabbed almost at the moment the initial combat ended when accused asked Bolds to cross the street to the alley in order to examine his wound (R.31).
At the time of the examination accused said to Bolds that "nobody was going to stab me and get away with it" (R.32, 37). Upon being asked as to whether accused was swearing and cursing when he said that.
Bolds answered "No" (R.37). Bolds was also asked if accused yelled "real loud, or did he just say it in an ordinary voice?" Answer: "He just talked" (R.37). Bolds told accused that he had to get back to go on guard (R.33, 37). Accused said "Come over across the street now to get this taxi" (R.33, 37). The taxi stand was at the opposite end of the bridge (R.38) and it was necessary to pass under the bridge in order to reach it. Accused was walking next to the wall (R.37) and when opposite deceased he leaned over and identified deceased and stuck him with the knife (R.37). Bolds was asked:	"Did Samnue appear to be awfully
excited when he walked down there?" The answer was: "No, sir". Bolds did not stop but proceeded on ahead. HThen accused joined him a moment later he was wiping the blood off of the knife (R.33, 37). Earlier in the evening accused displayed the knife while in the "Penny Arcade" when he was engaged in an argument with a civilian (R.32, Ul).
The foregoing does not create even an implication that accused was under the influence of anger or passion when he stabbed deceased. His actions and language bespoke no distraction, mental agitation, frenzy or anger. He was not excited nor did he speak in a loud voice - "He just talked". Accused's conduct did express, affirmatively a cold-blooded determination to secure revenge - "I intended to stick the fellow..back",
234995.23_	292
(254)
"I just -wanted to let him know how it felt when he stabbed me."
After Bolds protested he must leave for guard duty accused induced him to return across the street with him on the pretext they would seek a taxi. Bolds asserts he was -unaware that accused intended to make any attack. "I wasn’t looking for anything to happen" (R.39).
The picture presented is that of accused deliberately and vindictively planning to secure his revenge upon deceased with a ruthless disregard of the consequences.	His savage, barbaric
impulses were aroused and he responded to the "law of the jungle".
With premeditation and malicious cunning he sought to punish, in his 07«ti manner, the individual vrtio had wrongecjmjn. There was no beclouding of his mental processes -with.-anger or passion so that reason was dethroned. Rather his mentality was consciously at work, planning the act of violence which resulted in the death of deceased.
There is therefore not only substantial evidence in the record to support the finding that sufficient time elapsed between the cessation of accused's initial,conflict with deceased and the stabbing of deceased to enable accused to cool his anger and passion, but also to prove affirmatively that accused acted with malice aforethought and deliberately planned the stabbing of deceased. After allowing accused the benefit of all reasonable doubts and giving him the advantage of the "mutual combat" rule to its full extent, the conclusion above stated appears to be irrefragable.
The Board of Reviev/- is therefore of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of murder.
12.	Accused was convicted of murder under the 92nd Article of War - "Any person subject to military law who commits murder *bk*# . shall suffer death or imprisonment for life as a court-martial may direct*-**" The Court prescribed the death penalty and in addition sentenced accused (1) to be dishonorably discharged the service and (2) to forfeit all pay'md allowances due or to become due. These last two mentioned elements of the sentence are not affirmatively prescribed by the statute as part of the penalty for the crime of murder when the Court elects to sentence the accused to death. The question, therefore, arises as to whether the Court exceeded its authority in including them in the sentence.
With reference to the construction and interpretation of penal statutes, Chief Justice Marshall in United States v. Wiltberger,
5 Wheat, 7hj 9hi 9> L. Ed. 37} U2, announced a rule that is fundamental:
"The rule that penal laws are to be construed strictly, is perhaps not much less old than construction itself. It is founded on the tenderness of the law for the rights of individuals; and on the plain principle that the povfer of punishment is vested in the legislative, not in the judicial department.
It is the legislature, not the court, which is
234995 -2k-
292
to define a crime, and order its punishment.***
The intention of the legislature is to be collected from the words they emply. "Where there is no ambiguity in the words, there is no room for construction. The case must be a strong one indeed, which would justify a court in departing from the plain meaning of words, especially in apenal act, in search of an intention which the words themselves did not suggest.. To determine that a case, is within the intention of a statute, its language must authorize us to say so." (£ "Wheat 9k>	$	L.	Ed.,
Pg. U2).
This rule has been elaborated by the following authorities:
"Criminal and penal statutes must be strictly construed) that is, they cannot be enlarged or extended by intendment, implication, or by any equitable considerations. In other words, the language cannot be enlarged beyond the ordinary meaning of its terms in order to carry into effect the general purpose for which the statute was enacted.
Only those persons, offenses, and penalties, clearly included, beyond any reasonable doubt, will be considered within the statute's operation. They must come clearly within both the spirit and the letter of the statute, and where there is any reasonable doubt it must be resolved in favor of the person accused of violating the statute; that is, all questions in doubt will be resolved in favor of those from whom the penalty is sought. ***** And it matters not that the court believes that the statute should have been more comprehensive, or that a strict construction produces an undesirable result.
Since the power to inflict punishment is vested in the legislature rather than in the courts, there is considerable danger in subjecting criminal or penal statutes to a liberal construction, lest the court invade the province of the legislature. ***** As is obvious, the rule of strict construction largely and properly grows out of the tenderness of the lav/ for the rights of the individual, ****" (Crawford's Statutory Construction, sec. 2lj.0, pgs. I4.6O-I4.6li).
"whenever a statute creates an offense, and" expressly provides a punishment, the statutory \ provisions must be followed strictly and	j
234995	.2?.	.	V
exactly, and only the statutory penalty may be imposed." (1 "Wharton's Crominal Lav;, sec. 31, pg. I48)•
The practical application of these principles is veil demonstrated by the following decision of the Supreme Court of the United States:
Elliott, Collector, v. The East Pennsylvania Railroad Company, 99 U.S., U63, 25 L. Ed., 292:
A Federal Revenue Act prescribed a penalty of $1000 for default of any corporation in making a certain tax return or for failure to pay the tax. Plaintiff claimed that the defendant was liable for the $1000 penalty and also for a %% penalty and interest at 1/Tper month under another statute applicable to internal revenue taxes. The court held that inasmuch as Congress had declared soecifically the penalty of $1000, and no more, for failure to make the return or pay the tax that additional penalties from other general statutes would not be implied, saying:
"Penalties are never extended by implication.
They must be expressly imposed or they cannot be enforced."
»
In authorizing the death sentence for offenses committed in violation of the 92nd Article' of War, Congress used clear and unambiguous language. There are no qualifying words or phrases. There are no words capable of bearing more than one meaning. There is nothing to interpret or construe, and there is no basis for an implication that Congress intended, when the death sentence is applied, to authorize also the imposition of an additional punishment. "Shall suffer death" cannot be extended to read "Shall suffer death and also dishonorable discharge, and forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due" .
The 92nd Article of War is highly penal; it prescribes as punishment for the crimestherein denounced either death or life imprisonment - the two most severe criminal penalties.
The sentence is mandatory with respect to the two designated punishments. The convicted accused "shall suffer death or imprisonment for life, as a court-martial may direct." The court is allowed an election, in selecting the penalty to be adjudged from the two stated in this statute, in order to make it fit the crime and the criminal, but when such election ismade the discretionary power of the court is exhausted.
The Manual for Courts-Martial confirms the conclusion that the penalties prescribed for violation of the 92nd Article of ’War are mandatory — "either death or imprisonment for life is mandatory for murder and rape". (M.C.M. par. 103, pg. 93).
234995	-	26-
292
(257)
Inasmuch a's the 92nd Article of War (1) is free from uncertainties and ambiguities with respect to the designation of death as one of the authorized punishments; (2) is mandatory within the limits of the two methods of punishment authorized - death and life imprisonment, and (3) is highly penal, it follows that the canon of "strict construction", as announced and supported by the authorities herein above set forth, should be applied with full vigor.
"In imposing sentence for theoffenses made punishable under these Articles, the province of the court is simply ministerial -to pronounce the judgment of the law. It has no power to affix a punishment either more or less severe, or other, than that specified: any different or additional punishment is *	simply a nullity and inoperative. -JHhhs- Indeed
in all cases of punishments of the mandatory class, it is not the court which decrees the penalty but the statute; the distinctive /
' function of the court practically terminating with the conviction". (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents, (Reprint 1920), pgi395>).
Death is the extreme penalty visited try the law upon malefactors. Doth reason and conscience dictate the conclusion that Congress was satisfied justice would be vindicated when a convicted accused is executed. Such a death is a permanent and irrevocable termination of Military service and the concomitant right to future pay and allowances. It carries an ignominy and disgrace more cogent than thaij&rising from a dishonorable discharge.
With regard to forfeiture of pay Winthrop writes:
"This, though in terms authorized as a punishment by the Article of War in one instance only — viz. by Art. 101 in connection with suspension from command— is in fact authorized, by the usage of the service, wherever the sentence is discretionary with the oourt, and in c: ses &f soldiers, is the most frequent of all the military punishments! (Underscoring	x
supplied) . (Winthrop1 s Military Lav/' & precedents - Reprint, 1920, pg. lj.27).
A.s to dishonorable discharge the same author also notes:
"Dishonorable discharge, though not expressly required or authorized to be adjudged for any particular offense by the Articles of War, is indicated in general terms by Art. U, as a penalty which courts-martial may award, and is recognised in the Army Regulations,
(par. 1019), as a legal punishment for ”	292
enlisted men:	it	may	thus	be	imposed
wherever the*sentence rests in the discretion of the court. (Underscoring supplied). (Winthrop's Military Law •Sc Precedents, reprint, 1920, pg.U33).
The above quotations are applicable under the present Articles of War and Manual for Courts*Martial. Sentences of dishonorable discharge and total forfeitures are particularly applicable where the sentences are discretionary with the court but manifestly when Congress has prescribed the sentences there is no opportunity remaining for the exercise of discretion by the court. There is of course, a necessary exception in the case of the sentence of life imprisonment. It is unthinkable that penitentiary confinement for life should be imposed without permanently separating the convicted accused from the service. As a consequence, although Congress made no mention of dishonorable discharge in fixing the penalty for murder and rape under the 92nd Article of War, a court, in the event it determines upon life imprisonment, should accompany such sentence with dishonorable discharge. (M.C.H., par. 103, pg.92). (Cf.; Dig.
Ops. JAG. 1912-30, sec. 1387, pg. 688; Dig.Ops. JAG., 1912-UO, sec.U02(li), pg.2£o)..
The Board of Reviewhas heretofore held that, when a court sentences an accused to life imprisonment for violation of the 92nd Article of War, it is authorized to include the penalty of dishonorable discharge, but is not authorized to include the additional penalty of forfeiture of all of accused’s pay and allowances, dtie or to become due. (CM. ETO. 268, Ricks (decided - February 19U3))«
It is therefore the considered opinion of the Board of Review that the part of the sentence in the instant case forfeiting all pay and allowances due or to become due to the accused and of dishonorable discharge, is surplusage and void and should not be confirmed.
The sentence, however, is not void in toto but is valid as to that part thereof extending to the death sentence. The court had the undisputed power to impose the penalty of death. The sentence is therefore separable and the void part thereof must be disregarded (United States v. Pridgeon, 153 U.S. U8, 30 L. I'd. 631; 16 C.J., sec.. 3093, pg. 1312; 2U C.J.S., sec. l5SH, Pg. 112);
13.	The accused is 23 years old. He was inducted into the military service on 13 March 19I4I.
■ lh. The court was legally constituted. No errors injuriously
- 28 -
234995
292
CONT40ENTIAL	(259)
affecting the substantial rights of the accused werecommitted during the trial. In the opinion of the Board of Review the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentehce of death, but legally insufficient to support that part of the sentence requiring the dishonorable discharge of accused and the, forfeiture of his pay and allowances due or to become due.
:4k
Judge
Advocate.
Advocate.
Advocate.
1st Ind.
WAR DEPARTMENT, JAGO, ETOUSA, APO 871; 2 3 F£F 1943 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887.
1.	Herewith transmitted is the record of trial, together with the opinion of the B0ard of Review, in the case of Private First Class Sammie Mickles (3U021930), 226th <$£ Company (Salv Coll).
2» Upon trial by general court-martial, this soldier was found guilty of the crime of murder in violation of the 92nd Article of War.
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be hanged by the neck until dead, at such time and place as may meet the convenience of the reviewing authority. The reviewing authority approved the sentence except the words "at such time and place as may meet the convenience of the reviewing authority," the inclusion of which was disapproved, and forwarded the record of trial to you, for your action, under Article of War U8. -
3. Prior to your action thereon, you referred the record to me under the provisions of Article of War U6, and, in order to expedite final action in the case, and more especially to insure to the accused the independent and impartial examination of the record of trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in keeping with the spirit of Articles of War I4.8 and $0^, under the provisions of the latter article and, before examination by me, I referred the record to the Board of Review for its examination and opinion. Normally, pursuant to instructions of The Judge Advocate General, action by the confirming authority (other than the President) is required, under the provisions of the third paragraph of Article of War 5oJ, before the record is
234995
- 29 -
292
(260)	CONFIDENTIAL
referred to the Board of Review and Assistant Judge Advocate General. However, your reference of the record to me, prior to your action thereon, under the provisions of Article of War L6, which expressly authorizes such reference, since I, as Assistant Judge Advocate General, have, under the provisions of the last paragraph of Article of War with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, changes the normal situation indicated above. Under such circumstances, should I pass on the record under Article of War L6, in lieu of and as your staff Judge advocate, and return the record for your action prior to its examination by the Board of Review, it would then be necessary, after your action, for the Board of Review and myself, as Assistant Judge Advocate General, to examine the record to determine its legal sufficiency. Such a procedure would deny the accused the independent review of the record by the Board o'f Review, provided by Article of War £o|-, since the record of my examination and my recommendation under Article of War L6 would be part of the file of the case when it reached the Board of Review. It would also place me in the anomalous position of acting as staff judge advocate under Article of War i;6 before the review by the Board of Review and as Assistant Judge Advocate General after such review under Articles of War L8 and $0%. In my opinion, to follow such a procedure would deny the accused a substantial right given him by Articles of War L8 and $0^, On the other hand, following the procedure I have adopted denies the accused nothing, but fully protects his lights. I am convinced this is the procedure The Judge Advocate General would follow on a reference to him, under Article of War L6, for the reason that, in such event, he would occupy the dual role of staff judge advocate and The Judge Advocate General, as he does when the President is the confirming authority, and would follow the procedure prescribed for the latter class of cases.
I;. The Board of Review summarizes the evidence in the accompanying opinion and holds that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings and the death sentence ahd to warrant confirmation of such sentence, but legally insufficient to support that part of the sentence imposing dishonorable discharge and total forfeitures. I have carefully examined the record and concur in the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings and the death sentence and to warrant confirmation of such sentence.
Under the evidence in this case there is for determination the very important question as to whether accused was guilty of murder (carrying mandatory penalties of death or life imprisonment as the court may elect) or manslaughter (carrying a maximum sentence of dishonorable discharge, total forfeiture and penitentiary imprisonment for 10 years). This determination turns on whether the fatal blow was struck in the heat of passion^ or whether after the initial fight accused's passion had cooled. The accused and deceased, one Jan Ciapciak a Polish citizen and a merchant seaman, engaged in a fist-fight which wa3 of short duration and was terminated by the intervention of bystanders. Accused was stabbed by deceased (who probably used a chisel which was discovered in his clothing after death) during this melee The wound was but slight and amounted to no more than a small flesh wound.
234995
- 30 -
292
(261)
CONFIDENTIAL
The evidence irrefutably establishes that accused was immediately a rire of his injury. He left the scene of the fight, crossed the street with a soldier companion and examined the wound by the light of amatch. Accused and his companion then recrossed the street and discovered deceased standing against a wall. Without speaking and without movement or word by deceased, accused stabbed deceased in the chest with a knife of the dirk type, the blade being about 5 inches in length, inflicting the injury from which deceased died prior to arrival at a hospital. The time between the termination of the initial combat and the fatal stabbing was between 5 and 10 minutes. The evidence negatives the idea that accused when he stabbed deceased acted under heat of anger and passion to the degree that his reason was dethroned. Rather it affirmatively appears that he acted with premeditation and malice aforethought, and was motivated by a spirit of revenge. The homicide was an exhibition of the Mlaw of the jungle" - "eye for eye" and "tooth for tooth."
The Board of Reviw has made a careful, painstaking examination of the evidence and the legal authorities, and its conclusion, in my opinion, is legally sound.
6.	The court sentenced accused to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be hanged by the neck until dead "at such time and place as nay meet the convenience of the reviewing authority." . In approving the sentence the reviewing authority excepted therefrom the clause "at.such time and place as may meet the convenience of the reviewing authority." This action was obviously proper and has my approval. The Board of Review holds, that the part of the sentence imposing dishonorable discharge and forfeiture of pay and allowances due or to become due is void and of no legal effect, but that the death sentence is valid. Inasmuch as the illegal parts of the sentence are separable from the valid portion, the Board of Review concludes that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the sentence of death. I concur in this conclusion for the reasons contained in
the opinion of the Board of Review, and inasmuch as the discussion of the question by the Board of Review is exhaustive I do not think it necessary to comment farther.
7.	The reviewing authority has expressed the belief "that the ends of justice will be attained by commuting so much of the sentence as provides for hanging to imprisonment'.for life" and recommends such commutation. In this recommendation I concur*
In my opinion while the evidence shows no legal provocation for the act of accused, there did exist what i]iay be termed a mitigating provocation sufficient to place the crime in that class where the ends of justice and the demands of discipline will be served by a sentence of dishonorable discharge, total forfeiture, and life imprisonment.
8.	Without recommending such action it is my duty to point out to you that, in a case of this kind, you are authorized under the £lst Article of War to suspend the sentence until the pleasure of the President be known, in which event the record of trial, together with a copy of your order of suspension, should be
- 31 -
234995
(262)
CONFIDENTIAL
immediately transmitted to the President.
9.	Inclosed herewith are forms of action to accomplish any one of the following alternatives*
a.	Confirming the sentence and ordering its execution.
b.	Commuting the sentence, and as thus commuted, >. _ confirming the same and ordering its execution.
c.	Suspending the sentence and forwarding it to “ " the President for his action under the 5>lst
Article of War.
For the reasons stated above, I recommend commutation and, accordingly, that you sign form of action b.
5	Incls:
Record of trial.
Opinion of Board of Review. Forms of action (3).
(Sentence commuted to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement for life. As thus commuted, sentence confirmed and ordered executed. GC1K) 3, £X0, 1 Mar 1943)
Brigadie
Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations
234995
292
#(263)
