#(183)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 595.
20 JUL 1943
UNITED STATES v.
Private JOHN M. SUES (39239720), Company A, 56th Signal Battalion.
)
)
)
)
)
V CORPS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Bristol, England, 2 July 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable'discharge, total ' forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years.' Penitentiary.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER*, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following charge and specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:' In that Private John 11, Sipes,
Company A,‘ 56th Signal Battalion, did, at Patchway, Gloucestershire, England, on or about 24-00 hours, 15 June 1943* With' intent to commit a felony, viz, rape, commit an assault upon Company Sergeant Major Joan Whiffen. Auxiliary Territorial SeWice (British), by willfully and feloniously1 throwing her to the ground and disarranging her dress,' and by saying, ”1 don't care, I’m going to fuck you, I’m telling you”, or words to that effect.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and, Specification. Evidence of one previous conviction for wrongfully striking a fellow soldier in the face with his fist in violation of Article of War 96, was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or 'to become due and to be confined at hard labor for 10 years at such place as the reviewing authority may direct.
- 1 -
535
(ISA)
CONFIDENTIAL
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, but reduced the period of confinement to five years, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the.place of confinement, and forwarded the record of' trial for action under Article of War 50£.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution establishes, without conflict or dispute,, the following facts:
Company Sergeant Major Joan Whiffen, of the British Auxiliary Territorial Service, Bicksfields Calnp, Winterborne, England, on the evening of 15 June 1943, between the hours, of 2300 and 2400 was returning to her station riding a bicycle (R.8). When in the vicinity of Patchway, Bristol, England (R.15,19) she overtook and passed an American soldier also mounted on a bicycle. . The' soldier overtook her and said: "Where are you going?" Whiffen rode on, paying no heed and making no reply.
Upon turning a corner the4 soldier rode his bicycle straight into Whiffen and knocked her from her bicycle (R,B,ll), His action was deliberate (R.12). Whiffen had seen an American sentry some distance past on the road she had traveled. She abandoned her bicycle and ran in the direction of the sentry. The American soldier pursued her on his bicycle. When near her he' jumped off the bicycle and grabbed her pushing her to the ground near the hedge at the side of the road exclaiming "I am going to fuck you, I am telling you." He fell on top of the girl and put his hand beneath her clothes and on her personal parts (R.9,10,12-14)* The couple were on the ground for a few Seconds when Whiffen told him she desired to talk to him (R.12,13). Thereupon he allowed her to regain her feet. She started to walk towards the sentry who was not far away.
She screamed as soon as she was free from the soldier who again seized her and pushed her to the ground. During the ensuing struggle the soldier was on top of her. She screamed again and struggled away from him. Two American soldiers approached, and the soldier assaulting her ceased his attack and ran. He had been drinking (R.10,12). Whiffen had previously neither seen nor known her assailant (R.13,14)*
Private J. T. Brazil, Company B, and Private James W, Bucher, Company A, both of the 56th Signal Battalion were, on the night of 15 June 1943 at about 2400 hours in the vicinity of Patchway, Bristol, "England.
They were sitting smoking behind a hedge near a public road. They heard someone talking and the sound of a bicycle falling 'to the ground and then a cry for help. They sprang to their feet and ran out into the road in front of the hedge. A man, identified by Bucher as an American soldier, was running across the field in the direction of B Company station.
Brazil called after him. On the ground was a girl who was hysterical and "upset". Her clothes were disarranged and her hair "twisted and tangled up". Her stockings were torn. Upon Bucher reaching her she asked for her cap. He found it for her. Brazil commenced searching on the ground for her hat pin. The girl said "don’t run off, stay here with me" (R.15-19).	By that time the sentry had arrived at the scene.
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(185)
CiN -L;'-;':;YL
Immediately thereafter the Officer of the Day, Lieutenant Atkins and Sergeant Weller drove up in a "jeep", Brazil went to meet them and upon informing them of the direction taken by the fleeing soldier he returned to Bucher and the girl. An English air-raid warden and his wife appeared. The girl mentioned the fact that there was a bicycle "down the other way". Thp guards went to look for it, and brought it back (R.15,17,20).	The air-raid warden’s wife took the girl to her
home accompanied by the Officer of the Day (R.11,15,20). A few steps away from the place where the girl had been discovered a guard found another bicycle with a raincoat on it, Bucher picked up the bicycle and took it to Company A’s orderly room (R.15,20,23).	Thereafter the
bicycle was taken to Company B’s orderly room. On the morning of 16 July 1943, the accused in the presence of Captain Boggus, his company commander, and Captain Lester 0. Fulcher, commander Company B, 56th Signal Battalion^ identified the bicycle and stated he had wrecked it and left it by the side of the road. At that‘time there was a Government issue raincoat and belt with the bicycle, but the coat was net marked so as to identify it as belonging to accused‘(R.22-24).	The only damage
to the bicycle was that a staff or wire leaf on the front hub to the front mudguard or fender was bent in slightly, but not enough to prevent it being ridden (R.24).
Captain Fulcher, on the evening of 15 June 1943, went to the home of a Mrs. Clark, a British Air Raid Warden's wife and there saw an ATS Sergeant Major who was identified as Company Sergeant Major T/hiffen. Mrs. Clark's home was in the vicinity of the station of Company A, 56th Signal Battalion. Captain Fulcher received a report that a bicycle had been found in the orderly room of Company A. He returned to the orderly room, inspected the bicycle, ordered that it be put under guard and he then returned to Mrs. Clark's'home. He had called Captain Boggus, commander of Company A, and in the presence of Captains Fulcher and Boggus and the local police, Ydiiffen made a statement of events of the evening (R.23,24).
T/5 Elton L. Scifres, Company A, 56th Signal Battalion, was a room-mate of accused. On the night of 15 June 1943 Scifres went to bed at 11:15 P.M. and up to the hour he went to sleep accused had not come into the room (R.25).
Whiffen, while on the witness stand, identified accused as her assailant (R.ll). An identification parade was held on the afternoon of 16 June 1943 at Company B's mess hall. Approximately fifteen white American soldiers were placed on parade. All were members of Compary A. Yfhiffen was present and identified accused as her assailant (R.23,24)•
4.	Accused, upon being advised of his rights, elected to remain silent and n6 evidence was offered in his behalf.
5.	Lieutenant Colonel Russell V. Eastman was named lav/ member of the court (par.l, GO #91, 2 April 1943j Hqrs. V. Corps). Being the
- 3 -
c.
595
(1S6)
CONFIDENTIAL
senior officer present he was also president*of*the court. The record, of trill shows the presence of Lieutenant Colonel Eastman and his active participation in the trial, but does not designate him as the law member of the court. "The fact that the law member of’a general court-martial may alfco be the president of the court is expressly recognized in M.C.M., 83 **«* and elsewhere in the Manual for Courts-Martial." (Dig.Ops., JAG., 1912-194-0, par.365(g), p.175). The failure of the record to designate the -regularly appointed law member as such (his appointment and presence being otherwise affirmatively indicated) is but a clerical mis^. don and did not prejudice the rights of accused nor affect the regularity of the proceedings.
6.	On behalf of the prosecution certain hearsay evidence was
admitted:	statement	of	Whiffen to Brazil:	"don't	run	off,	stay	here
with me" when he approached her after hearing her cries for help (R.15); Whiffen's statement to Brazil that her assailant was "a dark fellow" (R.16); and the statement of the sergeant of the guard to Captain Fulcher that "an attempted rape had been made down the road" (R.23). While these statements were clearly inadmissible, their introduction could not have prejudiced accused in the face of the undisputed and convincing evidence of his guilt (AW 37).
7.	Assault with intent to commit rape:
11#** is an attempt to commit rape in which the overt act amounts to an assault upon the woman intended to be ravished. *** The intent to 1 have carnal knowledge of the woman assaulted by force and without her consent must exist and concur with the assault. ' In other words, the man must intend to overcome any resistance by force, actual or constructive, and penetrate the woman's person. Any less intent will not suffice. Once an assault with intent to commit rape is made, it is no defense that the man voluntarily desisted." (M.C.M. 1928, par.lA9 1, p.179).
11#** Intention is a fact which cannot be positively known to other persons, no one can testify directly concerning it and the matter must be an inference which the jury must find’from the established facts.
***."	(1	Wharton's	Criminal	Evidence,^sec,79, p.96).
After knocking the girl from her bicycle accused pursued and overtook her as she ran toward the sentry. He jumped off his bicycle, pushed her to'the ground and said "I am going to fuck you, I am telling you." He fell on top of her, and put his hands beneath her clothes and on her personal parts. Although he allowed v/hiffen to get up when she said she wanted to talk to him, accused again pushed her down on the ground when she screamed. During the struggle which ensued, he was on
(187)
top of her. The girl continued to scream and struggled away from him. Accused ran away as two American soldiers approached. Every element of the crime of rape was established except that of penetration. The actions and words of accused show that he assaulted the girl with the intent to have sexual relations with her. His purpose was defeated only by the resistance of his victim and the approach of the two soldiers. The evidence of the commission of the offense and identity of accused as the perpetrator thereof, is clear and convincing. In the opinion of the Board of Review the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty.
(CM ETO 78, Watts: CM ETO 489, Rhinehart and Fallucco: CM ETO 192, Lewis).
8.	Accused is 34 years of age. He was inducted 15 May 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months, and had no prior service.
9.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review
is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
10.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ET0U3A, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years or where he has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Attempt to commit rape is such an offense and the approved sentence is five years.
Both conditions of the order are present. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of attempt to commit a felony, viz: rape (U3CA, Title 18, sec.455, p.337)♦	The designation of the United States
Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, is correct.
Advocate
Advocate
Advocate
- 5 -
CON fib ENT
595
CONFIDENTIAL
1st lad.
SCD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 20 JUL 1943 TQj commanding General, V Corps, APO 305, U ,S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private JOHN M. SIPES (39239720), Company A, 56th Signal Battalion, attention is invited to the.foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^ you now have authority to order execution of the sentence,
2,	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement* The file number of the record in this office is ETO 595, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets'at the end of the orde£$^Y!t059?595).
.__C. McNEXL,
^ 'General, United States Arny, itant Judge Advocate General,
#(189)
