#(91)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
1 Doc 1942
ETO 105.
UNITED STATES
T. C. FOWLER, (38079537), Private, Battery "A", 190th Field
Artillery.
v.
190TH FIELD ARTILLERY TRIAL by G. C. M. convened at Lurgan, Northern Ireland,
12 November 1942. Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances and confinement for 5 years. Federal Reformatory.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW LITER, VAN BENSCKOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
<	1.	The	record	of trial in the case of the soldier named above has
been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	58th	Article	of ’Jar.
Specification:	In	that	Private	T.	C.	FOWLER,	Battery	A,
190th Field Artillery Regiment, did, at Camp Kilmer,
New Jersey, on or about 1300 hours, 30 August 1942, desert the service of the United States with intent to shirk important service, to-wit:	Embarkation	for	duty
beyond the continental limits of the United States, and did remain absent in desertion until he surrendered himself at Camp Kilmer, New Jersey, on or about 2 September 1942.
He pleaded not guilty to the Charge and Specification, but
guilty of violation of the 6lst Article of War. He was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence of two convictions by Summary Court-Martial: (l) absence without leave and breaking restriction, and (2) absence without leave wa3 introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for five years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action tinder Article of ’.Var 50-h
3.	The evidence shows that on 27 August 1942, accused, a member of Service Battery, 190th Field Artillery Regiment, was stationed at C6mp Kilmer, New Jersey (R.9). That on that date an order was issued from Headquarters, Camp Kilmer, confining all personnel of the Task Force to the post, excluding visitors from the Camp and. prohibiting the sending of telegraphic and telephone messages by personnel of the Task Force to persons outside the Post, and the despatching of personal mail until further orders (R.10-Exh."A"). This order was read to accused's battery at retreat on 27 August 1942 and published on the Bulletin board (R.ll).
It was read at the 1:00 o'clock drill formation of the Battery on 28 august 1942, accused being present at that time (R.19). The organization was usually paid on the last day of the month but in view of the fact that the organization was moving out before fonday, 31 August 1942, it was paid on Sunday 30 August 1942. On 30 August 1942 at the pay formation the battery members were directed to pack their "A" barrack bags and to clean and police up the barracks (R.15). They were directed to carry their "A" barrack bags downstairs (from the barracks) to await loading ana entraining (R.16). bombers of the battery were informed they were going to an overseas destination (R.18). Accused was present at the pay formation (R.16) and was paid before 11:00 o'clock. At 12:30 o'clock after the members of the battery had carried their "A" bags to the foot of the stairs the accused's "a" bag was found on his bunk. He v/as not present at the boat drill which was held at 13:00 o'clock (R.17). An entry was made in the Batter;/- morning report on 30 August 1942 carrying accused as AiVOL. (R.16). Accused's battery entrained between 6:00 and 7:00 o'clock on the evening of 30 August 1942 (R.12); proceeded by rail on to a port, thence to an overseas destination. Accused v/as not present on this movement (R.l?) but was returned to the regiment after it arrived in Northern Ireland (R.12).
The accused after being fully advised of his rights elected to take the stand in his own behalf and testified:
Op 30 August 1942 he had been drinking since 3:00 o'clock that morning, but "not so much". He was paid and left Camp Kilmer about 10:45 o'clock. He admitted "going A.V/.0.L" but "didn't think much about it", but after he had "sobered up I seen what I had done so I came back again". He knew his outfit was about to move out but did not think much about it and "didn't know when they was going". He voluntarily returned to Camp Kilmer when he sobered up and asked to be sent on the first boat overseas, after he found that his battery had already moved out (R.23).
Upon cross-examination accused testified that he did not know they were going overseas, but knew they were going somewhere; that he had been in the Regular Army four or five years; that it was unusual to be paid before the last day of the month (R.23); that he made no inquiry about the battery while he was away but came back and turned himself in after three days. He knew the battery was restricted to camp but did not remember hearing the order read (R.24). He knew that his "B" bag v/as gone, his "A" bag was ready to go and that the battery was going somewhere pretty soon but never heard anything about going overseas. While away he
was drinking until the morning he turned himself in.
4.	The Specification, Charge I, alleges that the accused did, on or about 30 August 1942, desert the service of the United States with intent to shirk important service.
Article of War 28 provides in pertinent part:-
"Any person subject to military law who quits his organization or place of duty with intent to avoid hazardous duty or shirk important service shall be deemed a deserter".
"Hazardous duty" or "important service" may include such service as embarkation for foreign duty or duty beyond the continental limits of the United States (M.C.M. 1928 - P.143).
Here absence without leave under the circumstances indicated is not in all cases prima facie evidence before a court-martial of intent to desert (SPJGS. 251.2	17	June 1942) and evidence must be introduced
from which the intent in desertion can be inferred (P.144 M.C.M. sec.130).
The accused by his. own admission knew that his battery was leaving very	- >
soon. His "B" bag was already packed and had gone to the rail-head and his "A" bag was packed and on his bunk ready to be taken downstairs. He had helped police up the barracks and had received hiS pay a day in advance of the regular pay-day. He knew he was restricted to the post area. He admitted absenting himself without leave - but "didn’t think much about it"- - although he was a soldier of four or five years of service and experience. There is no claim that accused was intoxicated before leaving. Any testimony by accused that he did not intend to shirk hazardous duty is not compelling as the court may believe or reject such testimony in whole or in part. The accused exhibited a spirit of such-callous indifference to his obligations and duties as a soldier that the court was justified in concluding that his departure and absence were intentional and deliberate. There was therefore sufficient evidence before the court from which it could properly infer an intention to shirk hazardous duty. • It is not the prerogative nor duty of the Board of Review to weigh the evidence as such function belongs to the Court.
5.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense involved. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
6.	The accused was 28 years old at time of commission of the offense. In view of War Department directive (AG 253 (2-6-41) E) the reviewing authority correctly designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place o^ ccjnfjn^fient accused.
2- DEC 1941
1st Ind
WAR DEPARTMENT, Office of The Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, APO 871, U.S. Arm7.
TO:	Commanding General, V Amy Corps (Reinf.)
- APO 305, U.S.. Army,
1.	I concur in the foregoing holding of the Board of Review. You now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	7/hen copies of the published order in this case are forwarded
to this office,they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement; The file number of the record of this case in this office is ETO 105. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the published order as follows:	(ETO	105).
#(95)
