#(1)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
 J’JN 1943
) WESTERN BASE SECTION, SOS, ETOUSA
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) Lichfield, Staffordshire,
) England, 8 March 1943. Sentence* ) Dishonorable discharge, forfeit-) ure of all pay and allowances and ) confinement at hard labor for ) four years. Disciplinary ) Training Center No.l, Shepton ) Mallet, Somerset, England.
OPINION of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1,	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above, which has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings, in part, but legally sufficient to support the sentence, has been examined by the Board of Review, and the Board submits this, its opinion to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification!
CHARGE* Violation of the 58th Article of War.
Specification* In that Clarence E. Nigg, Company A,
Casual Replacement Group (Provisional), did, at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 17 January 1943, desert the service of the United States by absenting himself without proper leave from his organization with intent to avoid hazardous duty to-wit: transfer to an overseas station, and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at London, England, on or about 31 January 1943*
■» 1 «•
P^rjnrNTm
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification, Evidence of one previous conviction was introduced.
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit nil pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor for four years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended the execution of that part thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's return from confinement and designated the Disciplinary Training Center Number 1, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, as the place of confinement.
The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Order No. 4-, Headquarters, Western Base Section, Services of Supply, U.S. Army, dated 16 April 194-3*
3.	The accused was, on 17 January 194-3, a member of Company "A", Casual Replacement Group (Provisional), stationed at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England.
The evidence disclosed by the record of trial shows that accused had been a member of Company "A", since "about the third of January" (R.32), that Captain Newburger was his battalion commander, Lieutenant Spooner, his company commander and Lieutenant Finklestein his platoon commander, and that accused was an acting squad leader (R.32). He was paid "about the 14-th of January" a little over 23 pounds which was his pay "up to and including December". Accused, with another soldier, traveled by train to London on the morning of the 17th January (R.37) after having failed to get a pass on application to his platoon Sergeant who told apcused if he went "it would be up to" accused, meaning it would be up to accused to suffer the consequences. The sergeant also informed accused "it would be safe enough to go. He didn't think we were moving out for some time" (R.37,4-5*46).	They
stayed in London "about 14- days" when they "run out of money" and "turned in to the military police at Paddington Station" (London) (R.37) on 31 January 194-3 (R.18), Accused's unit departed from its station "the night of January 20-21" (R.20). He was issued some equipment but "nothing out of the ordinary outside of our usual shortage between the 3rd and 17th of January" but he was not informed that the unit was alerted or was about to leave its station. Neither was he on any "hazardous" duty. Accused knew his unit was being equipped "to make a change of station in the future" (R.33,4-6). Any equipment in excess of TEA allowance was taken away from the man (R.7). They were "routine issues of clothing and equipment" (R.12). No announcements or notices of an alert were given the unit (R.10,22,31) though it was understood Task Force 2211-B would "be leaving in a few weeks" (R.ll) or "in the near future" (R.21).	Accused was a member of
"the outfit known as 2211-B".
- 2 -
^NTIAL
(3)
An extract copy of the morning report of accused's unit relating to accused was received in evidence as Exhibit "A" (R.6).
This exhibit attached to the record of trial shows accused "from duty to AWOL 17 January 1943," and "from AWOL to desertion 19 January 1943." It is initialed "T.D.S." and is certified to by "K. M. Nicholson,
Capt., F.A., Asst.Adj." It was read to the court by the trial judge advocate without comment or explanation.
A stipulation was entered into by the accused, his counsel and the trial judge advocate in open court, to the effect that accused surrendered himself at Paddington Station, London, to the military police on 31 January 1943 (R.18). Corporal Floyd Sonnier, a witness, testified that he had seen accused just once, that being the time he brought accused under guard from the detention barracks. London, to the Provost Marshal's office on the post at Lichfield (R.18;.
It was also stipulated in open court by accused, his counsel and the trial judge advocate that if James A, Kilian, Colonel Cavalry, Commanding Officer, Replacement Depot Number 10, was called and sworn, he would testify as follows: "That he was notified on 14 January 1943 from higher authority that Task Force 2211-B was to move forward, and that on or about 14 January 1943 Colonel Kilian then notified Captain Newburger of the Task Force 2211-B of that fact, ordering Captain Newburger to publish this information to all members of his command; that Task Force 2211-B did depart this station on or about 20 January 1943" (R.24).
Private David McAlpine, a member of Company "A", Casual Replacement Group, also known as 2211-B (R.6) until 16 January 1943, a prosecution witness, testified that needed equipment and clothing was issued but any excess they had over TEA allowance was taken away from them (R.7). He could not identify accused (R.9).
Sergeant Greengarde, 10th Replacement Depot, Post Supply Sergeant, was responsible for securing and issuing supplies on the post including the Casual Replacement Group (Provisional) also known as 2211-B (R.16) and testified as to the issue of clothing and equipment to such unit.
Lt. Col. Alfred H. Aldrich, F.A., 10th Replacement Depot, testified "customary" checkups were made but was unable to fix any definite dates when any such inspection did take place nor did he know of his own knowledge that 2211-B was alerted (R.22).
Sergeant Thomas D. Babcock testified that he was assigned to Task Force 2211-B as supply sergeant for a short time prior to 16 January (R.25), and that some equipment was issued and barrack bags marked about that time. He could fix no dates when formations of the unit were held nor what if anything was said to such formations.
- 3 -
u>
TH
■T!AL
The accused was sworn a3 a witness for himself and denied being informed that his unit was alerted or was going to move (R.33), and testified he was doing no hazardous duty nor was any equipment other than usual shortage, issued. The accused testified in part as follows*
"Q. Did you do anything particular that morning other than start off? Did you see anybody?
A. I seen Sergeant Counsel.
Q.	Sergeant who?
A. Sergeant Counsel.
Q. Who is he?
A. He is the platoon sergeant.
Q. Your superior non-commissioned officer?
A. Yes sir. I seen about a pass to London, and he said it was pretty doubtful whether to could get one or not. There hadn't been any so far. And I told him I would like to go to London.
Q. You told him you would like to go to London?
A. Yes sir. And he said, if I went, it wjuld be up to me. He said it would be safe enough to go.* He didn't think we were moving out for some time. He said, it would be up to me if I went
Q, But he wouldn't give you a pass?
A. That I wouldn't get a pass, but if I went, it was up to me to suffer the consequences.
Q. What else did he say?
A. He didn't believe the outfit would move for quite some time.
Q. He meant your particular outfit?
A. That's right, sir.
Q. Wouldn't leave for quite some time?
A. That's right, sir.
Q. And by leaving, what did you think he meant?
A. I don't quite understand that question, sir.
Q. He said he didn't believe the outfit would be leaving for sometime. Does he mean this company A or B that you were in wouldn't be leaving this station?
A. That's right, sir,
Q. Is that what you understood him to mean?
A. Yes sir.
Q. Then what did you do? Did you tell him whether you were going to take off or not?
A. I thought I would take a little time to London.
- U -
Mir NP
•h L
Q. You told him you would go anyway?
A, Yes sir.
Q. What did he say?
A. He didn’t say anything. He said it was up to me. That my mind was my own. That if I made up my mind, it was up to me."
(R. 35-36).
Q. And what did the sergeant tell you when he said you couldn’t have a pass to London?
A. He said, if you wish to go, I would have to take it upon myself.
Q. What did you at that time take him to mean by that?
A. That any punishment I would get would be my own.
Q. Could it have been to your mind that if the unit moved out, you would be stuck?
A. He stated the unit wasn't going to move.
Q. Did it occur to you that he might have meant that if the unit moved out, you would be stuck?
A. No sir.
Q. How did the topic of conversation come up that the unit wouldn’t move out for a couple of weeks?
A. I asked him if he thought we were ready to leave. He didn't believe so for quite some time. (R.A5,A6).
*XKXXX*XXXXXX*EXX
Q. Still, you thought enough to ask the platoon sergeant?
A. I knew we were about to leave sometime, sir.
That is what I came here for.
Q, You came here for what?
A. To go away. That is what we came to England to naturally end up in a battle place."
(R.45-46).
A. Article of War 58 reads:
"Desertion - Any person^who deserts or attempts to desert the service of the United States shall, if the offense be committed in time of was, suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct ********”.
Article of War 28 provides:
(6)
"*** Any person subject to military law who quits his organization or place of duty with the intent to avoid hazardous duty or to shirk important service shall be deemed a deserter"•
"Desertion is absence without leave accompanied by the intention not to return, or to avoid hazardous duty or to shirk important service*" (1928 M.C.M,, par.130, p.142).
"Absence without leave with intent to avoid hazardous duty or with intent to shirk important service*- Under AW 28 any person subject to military law who 'quits his organization or place of duty with the intent to avoid hazardous duty or to shirk important service shall be deemed a deserter*. The 'hazardous duty" or 'important service' may include such service of troops as strike or riot duty; employment in aid of the civil power in, for example, protecting property or quelling or preventing disorder in times of great public disaster; embarkation for foreign duty or duty beyond the continental limits of the United States; and, under some exceptional circumstances such as threatened invasion, entrainment for duty on the border. Such services as drill, target practice, maneuvers, and practice marches will not ordinarily be regarded as included." (1928 M.C.M., par.130, pp.142,143)•
"Absence without leave.- Absence without leave is usually proved, prima facie, by entries on the morning report. **** But the morning report, even though it refers to the accused as a 'deserter', is not complete evidence of desertion; it is evidence only of absence without leave, and it is still necessary for the trial judge advocate to prove an intent to remain permanently absent, or else to avoid hazardous duty or to shirk important service." **** (1928 M.C.M., par.130, p«143)»
— 6 —
r -
455
(7)
r^nf-pvTi ji
-	‘	'.'V	<	Sric
5.	The evidence shows, in fact accused himself admits, that he left his organization on January 17th and went to London where he remained "about 14 days" when his money becoming exhausted, he surrendered to the military police at the Paddington railroad station in London. Much of Prosecution’s testimony with respect to change of station and movements of Task Force 2211-B and as to accused's knowledge of its proposed movements was hearsay or was incompetent and immaterial or represented conclusions of the witnesses. Such evidence was clearly inadmissible, but it was undoubtedly conducive to the court's findings that accused deserted the service. It was therefore, prejudicial to accused's rights. When this evidence is eliminated, as it must be, accused's admission as to his absence without leave constitutes practically the entire competent, pertinent evidence on the vital issues. Accused's identification and surrender to the military police were both established by stipulation in open court (R.18). The testimony vaguely shows that accused had arrived from the United States about January 3rd and because of lack of records his unit received no pay until about January 14th; that the equipment of accused's unit was checked and completed, barrack bags were marked and the unit generally understood that in the course of time they would likely move on. Accused states that his sergeant said: "It would be safe enough to go for he didn't think they were moving for some time". The desertion charge against accused rests solely on proof that he left his unit to avoid "hazardous duty, to-wit: transfer to an overseas station". No intent to desert need be shown in such case, but the hazardous duty together with the intent of accused to avoid it, must both be proved. One of the necessary elements of the proof that accused absented himself from his command to avoid hazardous duty is proof that he was either notified or otherwise informed or had reason to believe that his unit was about to be transferred for "over-seas" service. Proof that accused's unit had been notified of prospective movement without additional proof that accused was actually present when such announcements were made does not suffice. (CM 230826, McGrath). Nor does proof of knowledge by accused that his unit was stationed at an embarkation camp and that eventually his unit would depart for "over-seas" meet the requirement of proof. (CM 231163, Sinclair). In the instant case the evidence, characterized by hearsay and opinion testimony, is far short of establishing the vital fact that accused was informed or advised of prospective movements of his unit, or that he otherwise knew his organization wa3 about to depart from the United Kingdom for duty beyond the seas and that he absented himself for the purpose of avoiding accompanying the same. The evidence with respect to the clothing and supplies issued to members of Task Force 2211-B prior to 17 January 1943 (R.7,8,12,13,16,33,34) discloses that it was primarily routine equipment. Such evidence considered alone or in conjunction with the other evidence submitted is not legally sufficient to permit the inference that by the issuance thereof accused was given notice that his unit immediately was to engage in
- 7 -
5 »
45o
hazardous duty. Whether there is evidence in the record legally sufficient to support such inference is a question within the province of the Board of Review (Bui., JAG., Aug. 1942, par.422, p.162). The proof of the Charge therefore, fails on this item.
Another element necessary to sustain the Charge of desertion herein against accused is proof that accused's unit "was under orders or anticipated orders involving ***» hazardous duty", which accused sought to evade. (Manual for Courts-Martial 1921, par.4-09, p.344-)•
It does not appear from Col. Kilian’s order (R.24) or from other evidence that the duty accused's unit wa3 to perform was hazardous. There can be no presumption that Task Force 2211-B departed to engage in such duty.
"No inference of fact or of law is reliable, drawn from premises which are uncertain.
Whenever circumstantial evidence is relied upon to prove a fact, the circumstances must be proved and not themselves presumed.
**** No where is the presumption held to be a substitute for proof of an independent and material fact." (United States v. Ross,
92 U.S., 281,283, 23 L.Ed. 707,708).
Nor can judicial notice be taken of its whereabouts.
"Overseas movement being secret, the precise nature and place of the duties performed by the landing team after embarkation were not matters of common knowledge of which the court could properly take judicial, notice".
(Bui., JAG., Feb 1943, par.395, p.6l; Bui.,
JAG., July 1942, par.385, p.104-).
Proof in the instant case shows that accused's organization, Task Force 2211-B, departed from its station at Lichfield "the night of January 20-21", but the record wholly fails to disclose whether it embarked for services without the United Kingdom or simply moved to a new camp or station within the British Isles. The record is totally silent as to the nature of the duty accused's organisation was to perform; hence there is a failure of proof on a vital element of the case.
There is therefore no evidence in the record legally sufficient to support the findings that accused is guilty of desertion as Charged.
6.	The evidence does show, by the accused's own admissions, that he was absent without leave for some 14- days and is legally sufficient, therefore, to support a finding of guilty of absence without leave for 14. days in violation of Article of War 61. Limitations upon the punishment which may be given for "absence without leave" in violation of Article of War 61 were removed December 1, 1942. (WD. Bull.57, 1942).
i: r- 8 —
455
(9)
7.	This record purports to cover the trial of ”Nigg, Clarence E* 12016383 Private” and that name is given in the General Court-Martial. Order, the Charges as written, the action, the record of previous convictions and the certificate attached to the morning report,
(Exhibit "A”). However, the charge sheet covers "Nigg, Clarence E. Jr., Pvt. 12016383” as does the reference to and report of the investigating officer, and the extract copy of the morning report. That they are
one and the same person is sufficiently established by the same serial number.
8.	Extract copy of morning report (Pros.Ex,”A") was read to the court without comment or explanation that the fact of the desertion therein mentioned must, nevertheless, be otherwise proved. The copy was certified by ”K. M, Nicholson, Capt., F.A., Asst.Adjutant”. The certification was erroneous. It should have been made by the company commander. (AR 34-5-5, par.13a, Aug.15,1942; J.A.G. 250.46, Apr 26, 1928; Bui. JAG., Dec.1942, par.395, pp.358,359). Attached to Pros. Ex.”A” is a copy of "Report of Desertion” made tinder AR 615-30, also certified as aforesaid. However, it apparently was not introduced in evidence nor read to the court inasmuch as it was hearsay. (Bui. JAG., Feb 1943, par.395» p.60). These irregularities and defects were harmless as
the absences therein shown were admitted by accused,	^
9.	Accused is 24 years of age. The charge sheet shows that he enlisted 11 October 1940, with no prior service.
10.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of the Charge and of the Specification as involves a finding that accused did, without proper leave, absent himself from his organization at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, from about 17 January 1943 to about 31 January 1943 and did remain absent without leave for a period of 14 days, until terminated by surrender at the place and time alleged in violation of Article of War 61, and legally
9,
455
1st Ind.
TO: Commanding
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. Z JUN (943 General, ETOUSA, U.S. Army*
1* In the case of Private CLARENCE E. NIGG, JR., (12016383)> Company "A", 2211-B, Casual Replacement Group (Provisional), I concur in the foregoing opinion by the Board of Review*	I recommend, for
the reasons therein stated, that only so much of the findings of the Charge and Specification be approved as involves a finding that accused did, without proper leave, absent himself from his organization at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, from about 17 January 1943 to about 31 January 1943 and did remain absent without leave for a period of 14 days until terminated by surrender at the place and time alleged, in violation of Article of War 61, and legally sufficient to support the sentence imposed,
2,	The evidence shows that accused, newly arrived in the United Kingdom and two days after receiving a rather large amount of pay, went to London without permission where he remained 14 days, surrendering to the military police when his money was spent. In his absence his unit moved, how far or where is not disclosed. Knowledge on the part of accused that his unit was to move was not shown and further it was not proved that the duty accused's unit was to perform was hazardous. He admitted his intentional absence but denied any notice or knowledge that the moving of his unit was imminent and claimed his superior non-commissioned officer informed him when a pass was requested, that the unit would not move for a substantial period of time. The prosecution therefore failed in their proof of any other offense than that of absence without leave,
3.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings of guilty of desertion herein be vacated and a finding of guilty of absence without leave be substituted therefor. The sentence as imposed remains legal for the substituted offense and is not the maximum.
4.	Inclosed herewith is a form of action designed to carry into
your approval.
Assistant Judge Advocate General, Branch Office with the
European Theater of Operations,
2	Incls:
Record of Trial
Opinion of Board of Review.
CONFIDENTIAL
(Finding of guilty of absence without leave approved and
#(11)
