#(79)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General
with the European Theater of APO 871	Operations
BOARD OF REVIEW	
ETO 1197	-8 FEB 1944
UNITED STATES )  ' V. • 1  ) ‘  First Lieutenant EUGENE J. CARR, ) (0-22905), 398th Engineer ) General Servi ce Begiment,'Corps ) of Engineers. * * )  )  )	SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROIEAN THEATER OF 0IERAII0N3
	Trial by G.C.M. convened'at Barnstaple, Devonshire, England, 27 November 1943* Sentence 1 To be dismissed the service and to forfeit all pay and allowances’due or. to become due.
HOLDING by the BOARD‘OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHQTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1* The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its'holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications*
CHARGE Ii Violation of tie ?6th Article of ftar.
Specification ii In that First Lieutenant Eugene J. Carr was at Barnstaple, NorthDevon,
England, drunk and disorderly in uniform in' a public place, to wit, Bamstaple-Biddeford road, on or about 2 October 1943.
Specification II* In that First Lieutenant Eugene J. Carr, Company "B",	Engineer	General
Service Regiment, did, at Barnstaple, North Devon, England, on or about 2 October 1943, wrongfully strikB Mr. Horsman, Berylmere,
Sticklepath, Barnstaple, North Devon,
England, with his hand.'
i	*
-1 -
(80)
Specification III:	In that ***••*, did,
at Barnstaple, North Devon, England, on or about 2 October 1943* wrongfully strike Mrs, Horsman, Berylmere, Sticklepath,
Barnstaple, 'North Devon,'England, with his hand.
Specification 17:	In	that	**•*•*,	did,
at Barnstaple, North lievon, England, on ,	of about 2 October 1^43* forcibly resist 1
arrest by civilian police in the performance of their duties,
CHAR® II:	Violation of the 95th Article of War,
Specification I:	In	that **•"***, was.'at
Barnstaple; North Devon, England, on or about 2 October 1943» ia a public place, to wit, the Barnstaple-Biddeford road drunk and disorderly while in uni from, (sic).
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of all charges and specifications, Evidence of two previous convictions was introduced, one for being drunk in uniform and the other?f>eing drunk and disorderly in unifonn, both in violation of Article of War 96, He was sentenced to be dismissed the service and to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due. The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer, Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article'of War 48, The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50J,
3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows that about 10:30 p.m.,
2	October 1943* Mr. and Mrs, Maurice H. Atkins, Belle Vue, Bickington,
North Devonshire, England, were walking home on Sticklepath Road in the vicinity of Bickington, They observed the li^iis of a car (agreed by the prosecution and defense to be a'command car) shining’down the road, and as" they approached the lights went out. An American, later identified as accused, came from behind the car to about the middle of the road, shone a torch in their faces and asked them where they were'going (R 48,52-33),
When they replied that they were going home he asked whether they were English or American and where Mr, Atkins was working. He would not let them by and •just pushed his hands and made various mumblings* (R48,52), They made several attempts to pass (R52) but he kept waving his hands (R50), putting up his fist (R54) and said they were staying there (R49), He threatened to beat Mr, Atkins to a pulp, said he would take care of Mrs. Atkins later and would push her face through the cement. At his order the man in the car kept a light shining in their faces, and as they tried to move forward or backward, he "made this car go up and down with us*. He shouted to the man in the car to " 'Get the guns out, and shoot them'.* Mrs, Atkins
(81)
became frightened and screamed• whereupon he told her not to scream again, seized her sleere and pulled her (R49.51-54)*'' The man in the car said » 'You had better let them go, Lieutenant'* *(R49’)•	They were in the
middle of the road when a ’<jeep tontaining four persons appeared and stopped. Wfyen Mrs. Atkins asked theifc help' but they did nothing, she ran with her husband down the road as accused called to. the man In the -car not to let them get away, an'd shouted ■ 'Get the guns but and shoot them both,' *(R49»
52-53).	■	*	,
At the trial both of the Atkins identified accused as the-man who had stopped them (R50.54)» and both testified that they did not see any weapon in his hands (R49,53)» * To Mrs* Atkins it seemed as if he had "gone mad*. (R49-60). Asked by the Court whether he beliefed accused" was insanely drunk at the time, Mr. Atkins replied "Well, I suppose he was. Yes* (r55)«
He had not seen the man who remained in the car (R53)»
f-
On the night of 2 October 1943 Mr* and Mrs. Whiter H. Horsman, Berylmere, Barnstaple and Mr. Sidney John Squire, The Post, Bickington were walking up Sticklepath Hill. As th,ey passed a parked car> there were two uniformed figures in the road,' One, later identified as accused, came over and said"*Halt, Stand to. Don't move. Don't speak or I'll shoot.•• He had his fist ^clenchedagainst his waist. Horsman asked "'What's the trouble, is there an invasion?•• Accused replied,' "'Quiet, or I will shoot.'" .
The other uniformed figure "must have slipped off" (R12-13, 43. 63). Accused turned his head and shouted as though he were giving orders. He seemed to be calling somebody from a car, and was "waiving the jeep up" from the top of the hill. Squires,who, "thought he was fairly wild", jumped over a locked gate and went:to a house to telephone the police (R63). Horsman said to his wife *'Come on, we have got to go home.'" They had gone about three paces when he was struck on the back of the head, probably by accused's fist, and "went flying" into the post office entrance. He fell down and was more or less knocked out. Mrs. Horsman screamed to accused *'Leave my husband alone•", whereupon he dealt her a severe blow with his fist over her right eye. Horsman heard his wife screaming and struggled to his feet, in a dazed condition when accused "made another dive for me, and my wife inter-, vened, and caught it across the eye". She fell, struck her right knee and ■broke" her stocking.; She-shouted-repeatedly to Mr. Squires but received no reply. When Mr. Horsman went to pick her up he.was struck again and ■went flying again". Accused landed on top of him. Mrs. Horsman called to the other soldier, 'who was across the road and asked him to do something for her husbandj he seemed afraid to speak, but finally came over and said ■'Lieutenant, leave this woman's husband alone.'" Accused.replied "'I am handling this case'", and the soldier left. A cyclist then passed and accused got.up and followed him shouting""Hey,there. I'll shoot. I'll shoot'". The Horsmans then ran down Wray Avenue and escaped (RI3-15,18-20, 44-46). After trying without success for about ten minutes to get into the house to telephone and tOifind something with which to hit accused.
Squires returned to.the road. The Horsmans had gone and he saw a car approaching. He did not return to the scene but instead departed down
(82)
Wrey Avenua(R63-64)•
Both Mr* and Mrs* Horaman identified accused as the person who had assaulted them (Rl4,l8,45)* Neither of them had noticed any weapon in his possession (R13»43)« Mr* Horaman testified that he did not smell any alcohol on accused's breath and that he did not know , whether he was drunk. His speech, however* was different than it was i&sn he saw him in‘town on the following.day (R19) when he apologized for his conduct and "had such a different manner"(R20-21),
At the trial Mr. Horaman identified a raincoat which he had worn that evening-and which bore as the result of. the assault* petrol lucid mud stains end a one inch tear in the left sleeve* The coat was admitted in evidence (E15-17l Eros. Ex* B).
On 3 October Dr. Hector Acheson, 21 Byport.Street, Barnstaple, examined Mrs. Horaman and found that she had an incised wound over the right eye, e bruised lip and an abrasion of One knee. The incised wound required stitching. Mr. Horsman-had an abrasion at the back of his head and a bruise on his buttock. The bruises and abrasions were *3111311, minor" but at the- time of trial the woman was still receiving treatment for the upset to her emotional system* ' Dr* Acheson's notes were admitted in evidence (H9-10j Pros* Ex.A)*
*	j	j
About lli40 p*m., 2 October Constable George Benny, stationed at Sherwell, was on duty on the Barnstaple-Bideford Hoad,, and was proceeding toward Sticklepath when he heard a man's voice shouting ".'Stop them I tell you, stop them'". A man and a woman ran toward him,-but turned off. Reaching Sticklepath Cross he saw a Military sergeant", ‘ Sergeant Emerick, standing by a parked military vehicle and an officer, later identified as accused, standing a little further away in the middle of the road shouting to himself "'Stop them, I tell you, stop them'"*
Ifo one else was present (R33t34)* The sergeant told Benny that he had come to fetch the officer but was unable to do anything with him owing to his condition (R34)* Accused seemed to be directing an imaginary battle in which everyone appeared to be his enemy and he was "calling on someone to open' up or man the guns and open fire* (R37)* Benny asked • him what the matter was, whereupon he told Benny to get out of the way or he would "smash my face in"* When Benny told him that his conduct was not becoming to a member of the United States forces "he then called me a yellow bastard, and said he was over in this country fighting for such skunks as me", Two persons appeared on bicycles and he shouted ■'Stop, you bastards'", and called on an imaginary sergeant named *'Mac'", to *
"man the guns and mow them down"* A car appeared and when Benny tried to get accused to safety, he started to struggle and held up his hands in a fighting attitude (R34“35)» The car stopped and Police Sergeant George H. Jewell and Constable George H. Rodd, -both stationed at Barnstaple,
4
(83)
alighted* Accused was waving his aims frantically and was acting ■more or less like a madman", When Jewell asked him what the matter was he replied "'You mind your own business, you bloody skunk'" and tried to kick Jewell in the testicles(R28-30,34-3^, He continually shouted "for someone to 'put.the guns on them', to 'shoot their heads off-'*. He referredtto the three police officers as "'yellow bastards', 'Bavarians,' 'Free French’"(R41),	When accused attempted to kick Jewell,
Rodd and Benny "both closed with him", pinned his arms behind his back, and with considerable difficulty got him into the American vehicle, , On the way to the vehicle he became violent and kicked Benny on both shins.
He was strong-and vicious. Sergeant Emerick had remained with the American vehicle about 35 yards away. He was sober, and "appeared to be very fri^itened as to what was taking place", Emerick drove accused and the ^hree police officers, to‘ the police station. Accused was very violent in the car, Thgpthree officers were forced to "more or less sit on him" (R29-30,34,37-4^,	When they arrived at the police station about Ili55
p.m,, because or his violence it was necessary to carry him from the vehicle into the station where three officers had to hold him down on a bench. Until about 1»45 a.au when Captain Arnett of the Military Police arrived at the station, accused was "struggling, kicking, gibbering, and using bad language, and *** had to be held down, otherwise he would have been more violent»(R29,37-39»41)« As soon as Captain Arnett spoke to him "it was like a light piercing the fog. He seemed to realize that he was talking to an American Officer, and it seemed to make all the difference,
•**. The Captain seemed tor.touch some spot that we could not". He ceased to be violent and aggressive, pulled himself together and behaved quite well(R31,35-36 ,2,1).
■4
At the trial Jewell, Benny and Rodd identified accused (R28,35» 4-0), . They did not notice any weapon in his possession, nor was any weapon found on his person when a search for his identity card was made at the > station (R31»38,40)« Both Jewell and Rodd testified that' he waq, "mad drunk", Jewell also testified that he smelled of intoxicating liquor and was "insanely drunk, absolutely without knowing what he was doing, I don't -think he could have> seen reason in any shape »or form" (R28-31,41).
When Captain Levin H. Arnett, 707th Military Police Battalion arrived at the police station at 1»45 a,m. 3 October accused's uniform was "quite in order", .but his shoes were off. He told accused to put them on, that he was taking him back to his organization. He obeyed and was driven to organization headquarters where he was turned over to the executive officer. He did not cause any trouble and did everything he was told to_ do willingly and without hesitation, <He was a little surly, it was evident that he had been-drinking and "there was an odor of alcohol". However, he recognized Captain Arnett, his speech was coherent and he "walked perfectly all right to the car"(R6o-6l), In the opinion of Captain Arnett, accused had been drinking heavily (R6l),
It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that Sergeant Reuben Styrlund sad Private First Class Webster Helmond, both of Company A,
-5
(34)
707th Military Police Battalion- went to the police station at Barnstaple on the night of 2 October and that accused was present and "in orderly condition at that time" (R59).
On 19 October 1943 accused was admitted to the 36th Station Hospital, a neuro-psychiatric hospital, where he was under the daily > observation of Captain Bill H. Williams, Medical Corps, who prepared a clinical, abstract for a board of officers which met on 29 October to determine accused's sanity under the provisions of paragraph 35° MCM, 1928, and AR 420-5* The clinical abstract and the report, were admitted in evidence (R56-58} Pros, Exe. C,D,E,F)* The board, found accused sane and responsible for his actions on 2 October and at;the time of its examination (29 October - 1943) (Pros. Ex. F).	•
4* For the defense. Sergeant John L. Emerick, Company B, 398th Engineer Regiment testified that on the evening of 2 October, he drove accused to the V/rey Arms and was instructed to call for him at 10 p*m* .
When he returned to Wrey Arms, accused "seemed to be intoxicated"* They drove two nurses to a hospital and during the ride accused's manner was orderly and his conversation natural* On the way back to Barnstaple he ordered Emerick to stop the car, got out, started to direct traffic and , stopped a car or two. He stopped two persons and Emerick turned on the car lights a_t his request (R66-67,70-71). The sergeant got him back in the car and drove away. He ordered Emerick to stop the vehicle again, got out, halted a jeep and tried unsuccessfully to halt a truck. .
>
- "All this time he was directing, the way_it sounded, artillery and machine-gun fire. He had his lines all set up, and the , way he was talking he didn't- want anybody to block his lines. That , . j	was the whole crux of the matter"(R67).
When he stopped two more persons Emerick drove off, turned around and returned in a few minutes. A woman ran up to the car and said hysterically "'He's killing my husband'.*+*'Please tales him away'"* Emerick found accused on top of a man, holding him down and saying that he would "knock his head off"• He finally made him understand these people would not go through his lines and accused let them go* He then got out in the middle of the street and "started his battle- formation all over again" (r6.7,69-70). The police arrived and he was taken to the station and then to his organization where .^he was shaking his head and beginning to wonder what was going on*. . Emeri'clc had a regular trip ticket which had been signed by the , dispatcher at the motor pool. The company commander had authorized the , use of the car* In Emerick's opinion, compared with the other officers under whom he had served, accused was "a very good military man"(R68-69)*
. Accused testified that before leaving camp he had "possibly three drinks". He remembered having had two drinks at the V.'yey Arms and estimated from the time he was there that he had possibly three,*maybe four";
- 6 -
.	’(85)
in all he had1"from six to ei$it"(R72,75-76)« He recalled conversing wi h tub nurses at Wrey Arms and meeting there a fellow officer and hia guest* The last thing he remembered-was standing in line for a drink at Wrey Arina* He next recalled •someone holding me down, with my arms pinned in a hammsrlock, and applying quite a bit of punishment’ to me*,1 He had the impression that the British *had turned against us, and there was some sort of a battle going on** He then remembered riding in a car . with an American officer, being in regimental headquarters, meeting the executive officer and being ordered to go to his quarters (R72-75)* When? he awoke the following morning (3 October) he had a feeling that something had happened, and ascertained from Sergeant Emerick what had occurred* He'went to the police station at Barnstaple, offered to make amends as far as he was able in a material way’ to the policemen and civilians who had suffered damage and'secured the addresses1 of the civilians involved* He saw Mr. and Mrs* Horsman and assured them that he would pay all expenses when the' doctor had consisted his treatments(R73-74»77)»
Questioned by the court, accused testified that at one time he had "a rather large capacity for liquor" but on two or three occasions during the last six or eight months *as little as four or five drinks has just knocked the sails out of me". He had at first attributed this fact to stomach trouble from which he “had fully recovered, and now believed it might be due to a "sort of mental stress* which he had been under for quite some time* On the other hand, on some occasions he had had 12 to 15 drinks and had been perfectly normal (R75*76)* He used to do quite a lot of drinking, but had done very little in the year and a half since his marriage* With the exception of two or three occasions he probably did not drink more in a year than the average man did in a month (R77)* Upon further questioning by the court, he admitted that he had been court-martialed and convicted twice before for .drunkenness while on the Alcan Highway project. The first trial consumed 10 hours, 'was very poorly defended, and it was a mess". He felt that he had then been unjustly convicted (R7&).
Colonel Theodore Wyman, Jr., Conmandant, 19th District,
Hestercombe House, Somerset testified that he had been accused's regimental conmander since June, 1943* In his opinion, accused's value to the service was *very large* (R22). He said accused had ability to lead troops against an armed enemy and Colonel Wyntn would be very glad to have him serve under him in a combat outfit* "However, I would not wish him to serve in any SOS outfit** As far as "soldiering characteristics" were concerned he would rate accused as superior. The faot that accused had been in one or two previous incidents would not alter his opinion (R23)*
r
Major Elmer W* Fuggit, regimental surgeon of the 398th Engineer Regiment had also known accused since June 1943* In his opinion he was extremely intelligent and a "very keen engineer*. He was very deteimined, had a rather explosive disposition, and showed great decisiveness (R24).
He would be peculiarly gifted as a combat soldier'because of a fighting instinct and the intelligence and ability to make quick decisions* “He
- 7 -
(86)
was elso an excellent leader* Hie physical condition wa3 excellent, •probably the best of any officers of our outfit*, and his mental condition was "perfectly suitable and responsible*(R25)* He was emotionally stable* He had never seen accused drunk (R26),
Captain John P* Rasmussen, battalion coaaaander of the 398th Engineer Regiment testified that,he had known accused for about eight months and that accused had been fcis administrative officer wnen he had commanded Company B and relieved him in command of B Company* . A3ked his opinion of him as a soldier. Captain Rasmussen testified "he is the best", that he was an outstanding5professional soldier (R78,8o). He based his opinion on his cooperation, his ability to command men and their respect, his technical*military knowledge, and his courage end reliability (R79-80)* He admitted the acts of which accused is pharged herein did not support such expressed opinion. It was his further opinion that "there is a lot to be salvaged in this young* man* I think he learned his lesson" (R80)* His opinion of accused was based on his being in "sane and good sense* for when*accused was under the influence of liguor "he is not the same Eugene Carr"(R81)though*he had never seen accused drunk(R80), The fact that accused had been before a court on two previous occasions for drunkenness would not change the witness' opinion of him(R79)*
* _
5* Specification 1, Charge I and the Specification of Charge-II both allege identical offenses at the same time and place, namely, drunkenness and disorderly conduct in uniform in violation of Articles of War 96 ard 95 respectively*
-	i
■Offenses under AW 95 aad. AW 96 are not the sane, nor established by the same evidence, the former being applicable to officers and cadets} and the conviction of an officer under both articles on the same facts held not illegal as placing him twice in jeopardy for 5 * the same offense. (McRae v. Henkes,
273 Fed. 108)" (Footnote, AW 95,
MOI, 1928, p.224).
• -	• ■	i
In the McRauS case cited above, the specifications alleging violations*of Articles .of War 95 and 9& were identical* In CM 209952, Berry there were identical specifications alleging violations of Articles of War 95- and 96, and the court denied a mbtion by the defense that the trial judge advocate be directed to elect between the duplicate charges*. The Board'of Review held that there was no error in the duplication but that the toffenses could be punished only in th’eir most important aspect (See also Lig.Ops, JAG5, 1912 1930, par.li(52 (4), p.722).
6* The reviews of the Assistant Staff Judge Advocate, Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOBSA and of the Assistant Theater Judge Advocate, ETOUSA
- 8 -
(S7)
contain discussions of several irregularities appearing'in the record of
trial. None of these irregularities injuriously affected the substantial
rights of accused and further comment thereon is deemed unnecessary* *
*
7, It was clearly established by the evidence that at the time and public place alleged accused, while in a grosslydrunkah condition, halted and committed an unprovoked assault with his fids upon two British sivil-ians, one of whom was a women, as the result of ‘which they received medical attention* He halted another Eritish couple, threatened them with bodily ' -harm and would not let them pass* He halted vehicular traffics, and used foul languege toward both British police and British civilians. On several occasions he loudly threatened to shoot the people with whom he came in contact. He attempted to kick one policeman in the-testicles and when taken in custody by the police, resisted so vlolsntly that it required three officers to place him in a vehicle, and to hold him down during the journey to the police station. It was necessary to carry him bodily into fhe station, where for over, an hour three policemen were forced to hold him down on a bench during , which tins he was "struggling, kicking^ gibbering, and using bad language*.
The evidence is legally sufficient to establish the findings of guilty of Charge I and of the four specifications thereunder alleging violation of Article of War*96*
With reference to Specifications 2, 3 and 4* Charge I (wrongfully striking Mr. and Mrs. Horeman with his fist, and forcibly resisting arrest 1 by the civilian police, in violation of Article of War 9^)» accused denied all memory of these events and ascribed his loss of memory to his Indulgence in intoxicants*
■It is a well settled general	1
rule of the common law, and also generally followed under the statute, that voluntary '	drunkenness of an accused at	*
'	* the time a‘crime was committed
is no defeilsej and thdt despite * ■	'	*	•	*
his voluntary drunkenness at the time one may, pubject to the qualifications hereinafter pointed out, be guilty of aiiy crime, such as assault***. It can make no difference, where no specific intent is necessary. that the intoxication was so extreme that accused was unconscious of-what he was doini: and had no 'capacity to distinguish between right and wrong, and, * * although there say be no actual criminal intent,' the law will, 1
- 9 -
by construction, supply the same, except in cases where specific intent is requisite** (22 CJS.,
Sec.86, p.I30-I3Ij l6 C.J., Sec.
81, p.10^-6) (Underscoring supplied).
Specific intent is not an essential element of the offenses alleged. In ■view of the foregoing, accused's voluntary drunkenness did not constitute a defense.	*
8*. With reference to* Specification 4. Charge I (forcibly resisting arrest by civilian police in performance of .their duties in violation of Article of War 96), the British police were authorized to arrest accused for an offense committed against British law (United States of America (Visiting Forces) Act,- 1942, (3 & 4 Geo.6 c.51) Sec. 1 (2)j Cir. 72, ETOTSA,
9 Sept. 1943. par. Ill 1 d). Although the evidence does not show that accused was informed by the British police that he was under arrest, such action was unnecessary in vifew of his violent and drunken misconduct at the •time.
>
9* The question remaining for consideration is whether accused's drunkenness and disorderly conduct was of such an aggravated nature as to amount to conduct unbecoming an officer and gentleman within the meaning of Article of War 95 (Charge II and Specification). In Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents it is stated that the word "unbecoming"* as used in Article of War 95 "•** is understood to mean not merely inappropriate or unsuitable, as being opposed to good taste or propriety *** but mbrally unbefitting", (Reprint p.711). The conduct contemplated by Article of War 95«
**** must offend so seriously against law, justice, morality or decorum as to expose to'disgracei socially or as a man, the offender, and at the * same time must be of such a nature or committed under such circumstances as to bring dishonor or disrepute upon the military profession which he re-presents." (Reprint, pp.711-712).
Winthrop cites as an instance of an offense chargeable under Article of War 6l (present AW 95) "Drunkenness of a gross character committed in the presence of military inferiors, or characterized by some peculiarly shameful conduct or disgraceful exhibition of himself by the -accused" (Reprint p.717). In paragraph 151» MCM., I928, p,l86, the offense of being'grossly drunk and conspicuously disorderly in a public place" is listed as an example of a violation of Article of War 95» It is further stated therein that the article contemplates conduct by an officer which, taking all the circumstances into consideration, showB that he is morally unfit to be an officer and to be considered a gentleman.
- 10
(89)
The findings indicate that the court believed the evidence sufficient to establish that focused was drunk and disorderly as alleged and in view of all the circumstances of the case the Board of Review will not disturb its findings. Accused's drunkenness was gross and his disorderly conduct was decidedly conspicuous. His conduct as a whole far transgressed military canons of fairness and decency, (CM ETO 25,
Kenny). The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge II and its Specification.
10.	Attached to the record of trial are three recommendations for clemency, one by Lieutenant Colonel J.S. Tudor, Quartermaster Corps, a member of the court, another by the assistant defense counsel who conducted the defense-in the absence of the defense counsel, and the third by the trial judge advocate. Also attached is a recommendation by the reviewing authority that accused be eliminated from the service but that such separation be without "dishonorable discharge".
11.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 27 years of age. He was a cadet at the United States Military Academy from 1 July 1936 to
11 June 1940, on which date he was commissioned a second lieutenant. United States Anny. On 10 October 1941 he was promoted to first lieutenant. Army of the United States, and on 11 June 1943 119 was promoted to first Lieutenant', United States Army.
12.	The court was legally constituted and had Jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Dismissal is mandatory upon conviction of violation of Article of War 95» and both dismissal and total forfeitures are authorized upon conviction of Article of War 96.
- 11 -
1st Ind
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. -8 FEB 1944 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of First Lieutenant EUGENE J. CARR (0-22905), 398th Engineer General Service Regiment, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence,.which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article 'of War 50£, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	In addition to dismissal from the service, the sentence imposed
by the court includes forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due. The sentence is entirely legal in view of the conviction of a violation of Article of War 96, in addition to the conviction of a violation of Article of War 95. An examination of cases of conviction by court-martial of officers in the United States wherein the President has acted as the confirming authority, discloses that that part of a sentence which imposes total forfeitures has almost uniformly been remitted. Such a remission would afford the officer involved the means with which to pay his obligations which are outstanding at the termination of his service, as well as the cost of transportation to his home. If such a policy has virtue in the United States, there is even stronger reason for it here in a foreign land distant from home.	'
V.
3.	Lieutenant Carr, according to those who have served with him, is ' an able, energetic, experienced professional soldier. If he would leave liquor alone, he appears capable of useful service in coming operations, but because of his record in this respect during the recent past hip must be considered a doubtful risk.
4-. When copies of the published order' are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1197. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 1197).	'
(Portion of sentence adjudging total forfeitures remitted. Execution of sentence as thus modified suspended.
#(91)
