#(397)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
ETO 439.
UNITED STATES
. ▼.
Second Lieutenant THOMAS W. NICHOLSON (0-885402), A.C., 68th Bombardment Squadron. 44th Bombardment Group (H;, AAF.
18 MM 1945
HEADQUARTERS, VIII BOMBER COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M,, convened at AAF Station 123, APO 634;
18 March 1943.
Sentences Dismissal.
)
)
)
)
)
)
HOLDING of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its opinion,to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specifications*
CHARGE* Violation of the 95th Article of War,
Specification 1* (Finding of Not Guilty)
Specification 2* (Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification 3* In that 2nd Lieut. Thomas W.
Nicholson,-A.C., 68th Bombardment Squadron,
44th Bombardment Group (H) AAF, was, at Norwich,
England, on or about 19 February 1943, in a public place to-wit, Sampson Hercules Dance Hall, drunk and disorderly while in uniform.
He pleaded not guilty to the Charge and to the Specifications thereunder. He was found not guilty of Specifications 1 and 2, guilty of Specification 3, and guilty of the Charge. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority. Commanding General, VIII Bomber Command, APO 634, approved the sentence f^r^agded the record of trial for action
- 1 -
onMnnrwTiAl
CONFIDENTIAL
under Article of War 48* The confirming authority. Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, approved only so much of the finding of guilty of the Charge and Specification 3 thereunder as involves a finding of guilty of Specification 3 in violation of the 96th Article of War, confirmed the sentence and, pursuant to Article of War 50%-, withheld the order directing the execution thereof,
3,	The evidence for the prosecution pertaining to the Specification of which accused was found guilty (Specification 3), shows that the Sampson Hercules Dance Hall, a small public dance hall, is situated in Norwich, England# "All sorts" of people were at the hall on the evening of 19 February 1943 (R.ll). About 9*30 P.M., on that evening, Corporal Chester H, Koronkiewicz, a military policeman on duty at the hall, was asked by the bar tender to remove a sergeant who was drunk in the lobby. Accused approached Koronkiewicz and told him that he had no right to lock up the sergeant, that if Koronkiewicz did so, he would have to lock up accused as well (R.ll,14,16,18).	Sergeant William R. Richardson,
also on duty as a military policeman, asked accused for his name and for that of his commanding officer. Accused replied "that his father was his Commanding Officer, and that he was a bastard".	This reference b7
accused was not made in a joking manner (R,18-19),	Accused then went
toward the dance floor, seized a lady by the arm and asked her to dance with him. Accused asked her if she liked him. The woman replied in the negative and accused let her go (R.14,l6). Accused then proceeded to the dance floor, "caused an unnecessary disturbance", and "broke up the dance several times" (R.14). Several people joined in a dance called the Conga. During the course of the dance, someone hit accused on the head and he fell down. He rose and rejoined the dance. The The floor of the hall was very slippery. Accused’s conduct was then "not too noticeable" (R.7-8, 18-19).
When the band stopped playing. Corporal Koronkiewicz noticed accused arguing with two noncommissioned officers about dancing with a girl. Koronkiewicz went out on the floor and was told by one of these noncommissioned officers that it was all right, that accused could dance with her. Koronkiewicz then told Lieutenant William F. Lucke,
Assistant Provost Marshal, about accused. Pursuant to Lieutenant Lucke's instructions, Koronkiewicz went to accused who was at the bar, and told him that Lieutenant Lucke wished to see him. Accused replied: "Who the hell is he? Tell Lt. Lucke to go fuck himself and if he wants to talk to me he should come over here instead of ny going to him". Accused then called Koronkiewicz a son of a bitch and a bastard, and said if he did not like it, Koronkiewicz could come outside with him.
Several women were present but accused "seemed to disregard them". He said that "he did not give a fuck about the Military Police". Accused "kept pushing himself through the crowd and using profane language". Koronkiewicz "said 0.K" in response to accused's request to go ou1ri.de, in order that he might bring accused to the lobby to see Lieutenant Lucke. However, accused "dragged" him outside. Accused then took
233150
433
(399)
f 5	!	iriL
off hi a blouse, but Koronkiewicz refused to go into the alley with him (R. 14-17, 20). When Koronkiewicz and accused were talking at the bar, "quite a few people heard the language, although the band was playing" (R.15).
When Lieutenant Lucke and Private Harold B. Hendricks, another member of the military police, joined accused and Koronkiewicz outside the hall, accused had removed his blouse. His fists were in a fighting position. He insisted that he desired to "have it out" in the alley with Koronkiewicz, and offered to fight the military police one at a time (R.15-16, 20-21). Accused addressed Lieutenant Lucke in a loud tone of voice. He said that "he knew we had some record of him", that he would return to town and would get twice as drunk as he was then, and would cause more disturbance. Accused further stated that he hoped action would be taken on his record, that such action would result in his being put out of the army, that it would be necessary to send him back to the States, and that he hoped to get out of the army regardless of his rank. Accused said that he would give himself a bad record in order that he would be returned to the United States (R.15, 20-21).
With reference to the alleged drunkenness of accused,
Corporal Chester F. Schmidt, a military policeman, testified that on the evening in question, accused definitely had been drinking but was not intoxicated. He was wandering about alone, was somewhat dishevelled and his uniform was not neat. Accused did not stagger and seemed to have control of himself. Schmidt was not close enough to accused to know whether the latter was under the influence of liquor (R.7-9).
According to Private Frederick 11. Robar, another member of the military police, accused was in his uniform and "looked all right" when he saw him. He had been drinking and was "feeling good", but Robar could not say that he was drunk (R.11-12).
In the opinion of Corporal Koronkiewicz and Private Hendricks, accused was drunk. As ha3 been previously stated, the language addressed by accused to Koronkiewicz at the bar was, according to Koronkiewicz, heard by several persons although the band was then playing. Accused was acting in a normal and logical manner at the bar wher^irst approached by Koronkiewicz (R.15-17).
Lieutenant Lucke testified that from his actions it appeared that accused had had quite a bit to drink. He wanted to pick a fight with the military police, and talked in a loud tone of voice.
The lieutenant was not close enough to smell accused's breath (R.20).
4.	For the defense, First Lieutenant John J. Finch testified that he saw accused on the dance floor. He did not see him dance the Conga, nor did he see any one "break up the Conga line" on the evening of February 19. Lieutenant Finch saw accused about 10:30 P.M. when
236450
CONFIDENTIAL
the dance ended, and later at a hotel. Accused wore his blouse and there wan nothing unusual about his appearance. He did not consider that accused was drunk (R.26-28).
First Lieutenant Louis V. Girard had known accused "pretty well" since April 1941» and had trained with him in the Royal Canadian Air Force. Accused was a "very good man" and was one of the few who completed the course. He had a good personality, and had not been in any trouble about which the witness had any knowledge (R.28-29)*
It was stipulated that the character of accused was excellent during the 19 months he served with the Royal Canadian Air Force (R.29).
Upon being advised of his rights, accused elected to make an unsworn statement. After two years of college he volunteered for the Air Corps at the age of 18, but could not join as he was too young.
He went to Canada, joined the Royal Canadian Air Force, and for three months received training for aircraftsman 2nd class. He then spent six weeks at a school studying to be a pilot. After 12 weeks at an elementary flying school he was graduated in the AFTS ranking 15th in a class of 70. Upon completing his training he received his wings, and was promoted from aircraftsman to Sergeant-Pilot. Upon reaching England, he taught navigation for five months and then spent three or four months at another station. He received a promotion, transferred to the American Air Force and was sent to the VIII Bomber Command.
He received tactical training at Bovingdon, and obtained his co-pilot rating after forty hours on a B-17. He obtained a grade of 99% out of a possible 100$ and was "checked out" as a co-pilot on a B-17. He was then transferred to the 44th Bombardment Group where he expected to fly B-17's. The members of the 44th Bombardment Group were flying B-24’s on operational missions, and accused had no experience with these machines. The only time he could go up was when he could get a ride. He "was confined". (R.29-30).
On 19 February 1943, accused went to town, had three or four drinks at a hotel, went to the Sampson Hercules Dance Hall, had another drink, and then went up to the dance floor. He saw a girl whom he knew, and touched but did not grab her arm as she passed. He asked her for a dance and his request was refused. "Then an MP came at me.
I was mad". The military policeman said that another military policeman wished to see accused in the lobby. Accused, who did not consider that he had done anything out of the ordinary, became angry again and had a few words with the soldier. He went outside with the military police, and Lieutenant Lucke came out to join them. Accused then was angry and "wanted to do something about it". He told Lieutenant Lucke that he would return to the hotel to get his hat and coat.
Accused went to town for the following reasons: he came to the 44th Bombardment Group to be part of a combat crew.	He considered
233450
(401)
/v*h r •
NTiM
himself a co-pilot on combat status. The 44th Group had B-24's and were conducting operational missions. Accused had to learn to fly a B-24. He could fly only when he could get a ride. He sat around the officers' club, took an occasional course in aircraft recognition, and did not do much. He was interested at first and asked as many questions as possible. "All this brought down my morale". He did not desire to sit around the club after having been trained to fly. Accused did not believe that he had done anything wrong (R.30-31).
5.	The evidence is legally sufficient to establish that accused was, at the place and time alleged in Specification 3 of the Charge, drunk and disorderly in uniform in a public place, to wit, the Sampson Hercules Dance Hall, where both military personnel and civilians were present. The question arises as to whether the behavior alleged was of such an aggravated nature as to amount to conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman within the meaning of Article of War 95. In Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents it is stated that the word "unbecoming" as used in Article of War 95 "*** is understood to mean not merely inappropriate or unsuitable, as being opposed to good taste or propriety *** but morally unbefitting and unworthy". (Reprint p.71l). The conduct contemplated by Article of War 95*
•i*** must offend so seriously against law, justice, morality or decorum as to expose to disgrace, socially or as a man, the offender, and at the same time must be of such a nature or committed under such circumstances as to bring dishonor or disrepute upon the military profession which he represents." (Reprint, pp.711,712).
Winthrop cites, as an instance of an offense chargeable under Article of War 61 (95), "Drunkenness of a gross character committed in the presence of military inferiors, or characterized by some peculiarly shameful conduct or disgraceful exhibition of himself by the accused" (Reprint p.717). In paragraph 151 of the Manual for Courts-Martial the offense of "being grossly drunk and conspicuiously disorderly in a public place" is listed as an example of a violation of Article of War 95. It is further stated therein that the Article contemplates conduct by an officer which, taking all the circumstances into consideration, shows that he is morally unfit to be an officer and to be considered a gentleman.
Two witnesses for the prosecution testified in substance that although accused had been drinking, they could not sayihat' he was drunk. One of these witnesses observed that accused did not stagger, and that he appeared to have control of himself. Accused "looked all right" to the other witness although he was apparently "feeling good". A third witness testified that accused definitely had been drinking, that he talked in a loud tone of voice, and that he wanted to fight.
236450
- 5 -
ec-nn^TlU
U02)	vU	'tnLfL'N	i
Two other witnesses for the prosecution testified that accused was drunk. A witness for the defense was of the opinion that accused was not drunk. Accused himself informed Lieutenant Lucke and the military police that he would return to town and get twice as drunk as he was,at that time.
The findings indicate that the court believed the evidence sufficient to establish that the accused was drunk as alleged.
Considering all the circumstances of the case, the Board of Review is of the same opinion. The Board believes, however, that although the drunkenness of accused was undoubtedly discreditable, the proof falls short of demonstrating that it was in fact of such an aggravated degree as to justify a characterization of gross.
With respect to the alleged disorderly conduct of accused, there is no doubt that accused addressed highly reprehensible language to his military inferiors. Whether such language was heard by persons other than those directly involved is questionable. The bare statement of Corporal Koronkiewicz, that "quite a few people heard the language, although the band was playing" was unsupported by any other evidence which would establish how the witness knew such to be the fact. The statement appeared to be merely a conclusion by the witness. Although accused, when he left the hall, "kept pushing himself through the crowd and using profane language", there was no evidence that his conduct was observed or that his language was heard, by persons other than Koronkiewicz.
Accused fell on the floor while dancing the Conga with a group of people. The evidence shows that the fall was in all probability the result of the slippery condition of the floor, or of a blow on his head, which blow was apparently accidental. The conduct of accused was then "not too noticeable". Corporal Koronkiewicz testified that accused "caused an unnecessary disturbance" on the floor and "broke up the dance several times". There was no evidence as to the nature or seriousness of the disturbance, the manner in which accused broke up the dance, or the degree of his misconduct.
The use -of the offensive language by accused toward his military inferiors was entirely unjustified in law or in fact. It was abusive, profane, highly reprehensible and undoubtedly prejudicial to good order and military discipline within the meaning of Article of War 96. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the utterances did not so far transgress military canons of fairness and decency as to demonstrate that accused is morally unfit to continue as an officer.
It was not of such a character as to transcend the line of demarcation between conduct violative of Article of War 96 and the more reprehensible conduct considered to be violative of the 95th Article of War.
236450.
/\ .*
(403)
Accordingly, considering all the circumstances of the case, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the evidence as to the alleged drunkenness and disorderly conduct of accused, is legally sufficient to support only so much of the finding of guilty of the Charge as involves a violation of Article of War 96.
6.	At the close of the case for the prosecution, the defense moved "for a plea of not guilty on grounds insufficiency of proof of Guilty, and also to substitute AW.96 for AW.95" • The court in closed session denied "the motion of the Defense to dismiss the Charge 95th Article of War,' and so stated", and deferred it3 action on the motion to substitute the 96th Article of War for Article of War 95 (R.21).
After closing arguments had been made by the prosecution and by the defense, the court denied the motion to substitute the 96th Article
of War for Article of War 95 (R.31).
In view of the evidence which had been introduced by the prosecution, the court was clearly warranted in denying what was in fact a motion for a finding of not guilty. The court was, as a matter of procedure, after the closing arguments, entitled then to deny the motion to substitute Article of War 96, to sit in closed session at the termination of the evidence, to reach its findings in the usual manner, and, in effect, to allow such findings to reflect its denial of the motion.
7.	Attached to the record of trial is a recommendation for clemency signed by the two individual counsel introduced by accused, and by the regularly appointed defense counsel. Because of the accused’s "excellent record of prior service, conduct and training", they recommend that accused be not dismissed from the service. This
- recommendation was approved by all members of the court who were present during the trial.
8.	The accused is 21 years of age. He was commissioned a second lieutenant. Air Corps, 13 October 1942, upon transfer from the Canadian Armed Forces to the Armed Forces of the United States. On 16 January 1943, he wa3 assigned to the 44th Bombardment Group (H) AAF, from the 326th Bombardment Squadron.
9.	The court was legally constituted. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. He was found not guilty of Specifications! and 2 of the Charge. In the opinion of the Board of Review the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 3 and of the Charge as involves findings of guilty of this Specification in violation of Article of War 96, legally sufficient to support the sentence, and warrants the action
236450	■»	4
- 7 -
Cl
(404)
taken by the confirming authority. Dismissal is authorized upon conviction of violation of Article of War 96.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(405)
1st Ind
WD, Branch Office TJAG with ETOUSA. *6 WUT 1943 TO: Commanding General, ETO, U.S. Army, APO 887.
1.	In the case of Second Lieutenant THOMAS W. NICHOLSON (0-885402), Air Corps, 68th Bombardment Squadron, 44th Bombardment Group (H) AAF, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much
of the findings of guilty of Specification 3 and of the Charge as involves •findings of guilty of this Specification in violation of Article of War 96, legally sufficient to support the sentence and to warrant the action taken by the confirming authority, which holding is hereby approved.
Under the provisions of Article of Weir 50%, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office,
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding eind this indorsement. The file number of the record in thi^office is ETO 439. For convenience of reference please place that number \(^hrackets at the end of the order:	(ETO 439).
Brigadier uener&i,
Assistant Judge Advocate General, Branch Office with the European Theater of Operations.
Inc It
Holdinr of Board of Review.
(SentehcleHtfytued executed. GCMO 8, ETO, 28 May 1943)
REGRADED ...On c LASS /^ ieJ?.........
236450
