#(331)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General1 with the	'
European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OS’ REVIEW ' .
ETO 1447
UNITED STATES )
)
i
Chief Warrant Officer ARTHUR ) W. SCHOLBE (W-2104881), Head- ) quarters Company, 2d Armored ) Division Trains.	)
-6 MAR 1944
2D ARMORED DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Headquarters, 2d Armored Division, APO. 252, 4 February 1944. Sentence* Dismissal and total forfeitures.
1 _
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	■ The record of trial’ in- the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.-
2*. Accused was tried upon the following Charge and specifications:
CHARGE: Violation of the 96th Article* of War.
Specification 1* In that CWO Arthur W. Scholbe,
Hq Co., 2d Armored Division Trains did at or near Andover, England,, oh or about 18 January 1944, violate standing orders of the Division Commander prohibiting officers from operating motor vehicles except in stated circumstances, by operating a government motor vehicle which had been duly dispatched to a regular driver, on a trip not involving any emergency, tactical’ training, or combat.
2:	(Finding of not guilty).
3:	In	that * * * did at Tidworth, __
England, on or about 19 January 1944 in a sworn statement made before Lt. Col. QKVAL J.
ABET., 0-322786, Headquarters 2nd Armd. Div.
Trains during an official investigation regarding a motor accident involving a motor vehicle in which accused was known to have_ been an occupant, make tinder oath a statement --
- 1 -
in substance as follows: "Sergeant Lawrence
B.	Van Heuklon, 36201956, Kq. Co., 2nd Arad.
Div. Trains was' driving the vehicle at the time of the accident", which statement he did not then believe to be true, in that he, the said iVarrant Officer Scholbe, then well knew that he himself had been driving the motor vehicle at the time of the accident in question.
He pleaded not guilty, and was found not guilty of Specification 2; guilty of Specification 1; guilty of Specification 3, except the words "in a sworn statement made before" and "make under oath", substituting therefor respectively the words "with intent to deceive" and "make", of the excepted v/ords, not guilty, of the substituted v/ords, guilty; and guilty of the Charge. No evidence of.previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the servicl^to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due. The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of war 5O2-.
3.' The testimony for the prosecution was in substance as follows:
Technical Sergeant Fourth Grade Laurence B. Van Heuklon, a mechanic of Headquarters Company, 2d Armored Division Trains, because of the absence of a regular driver was issued a regular trip ticket and directed to take a quarter-ton Ford peep and pick up accused at 5:30 p.m. 18 January 1944. He picked up accused and another .Tarrant Officer, Davis. He drove the two warrant officers to the white Kart Hotel in Andover, and then to the train station v/here two nurses entered the vehicle. He drove the party to the white Hart Hotel and was instructed to return to the hotel at nine o'clock. He returned at that time, the two warrant officers and the two nur,ses entered the car and Van Heuklon started to drive to Tidworth. The night was foggy 'and accused became impatient with the speed and uncertain of the road direction. After traveling some distance, he directed Van Heuklon to stop and he took over the driving of the car. He was aware of the standing orders of the 2nd Armored Division forbidding the driving of any vehicle by officers except during a tactical operation or in an emergency. V/hile proceeding at a speed of about 25 miles an hour, the peep and passengers came to the end of the road upon which they were traveling at a point where it is crossed by a transverse road, continued across this latter road and struck a stump causing the car to stop abruptly (R5-6). A fender and hamper of the car were .damaged requiring repairs to the extent of. $11.60 (Rll,18). Accused was slightly injured (Rll). At this time accused was driving. Van Heuklon sat in the front seat with one of the nurses sitting between him and accused. Davis and the other nurse occupied the rear seat (R7). Accused and Van Heuklon went to a telephone booth to ask that transportation be sent them. Nhile there Van Heuklon testified that accused "asked me if I knew-the score in which an officer isn't supposed to be driving a peep and I said, 'Yes sir, I had,' and then he said, 'You v/ere driving'"
- 2 - ‘
(333)
Lieutenant Colonel Orval J. Abel, Headquarters, 2nd Armored Division, was ordered to investigate the accident. Accused appeared before him and told his story in which he said that Van Heuklon was driving at the time of the accident (Ex."C"; R16). The answers and questions were taken in shorthand at the time and thereafter transcribed. . They were presented to accused about noon the next day whe'n he was asked, MAre you willing to sign this testimony as the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God,” (R15). The accused answered "I do” and signed the statement (R16). He was not required to stand up or raise his hand prior to signing the statement (R15). Accused later made an unsigned statement to Abel (Ex."D"j R17-23) in which he admitted that he was driving at the time of the accident and that he was familiar with the standing order forbidding officers to drive vehicles.
A. The only defense witness was accused, who told approximately the same story as heretofore set out. He stated he took over the driving of the peep because he knew the road and Van Heuklon was lost. He said at the investigation of the accident that Van Heuklon was driving, thinking the investigation would go no further and the nurses would not become involved. He denied being sworn to the first statement though he intended it to be his official statement about the accident. When he was sworn before making the second statement, he then told the truth (R24-27).
5.	Accused admitted driving the vehicle as charged in Specification 1 in violation of the divisional standing order. This disobedience constituted an offense under the 96th Article of War (CM 115049 (1918), Dig.Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, par.422(5), p.285; Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par.l34£, p.149). Obviously accused was not driving the car during any training process. Even to suggest that he was driving on the occasion of an "emergency” within the purview of the standing order is an affront to common sense. He was driving for his own pleasure and satisfaction on his own mission. The trial court's finding of accused's guilt of the Specification 1 is substantially supported by the evideiice.
6.	Accused's false statement, viz: that Van Heuklon was driving the motor vehicle at.the time of the collision with the tree stump was made to the investigating officer in course of the official investigation of the accident. It is not necessary for the decision in this cade to determine the question as to whether or not such conduct constituted perjury under the 93rd Article of War and such question is reserved for further consideration. It is clear that Specification 3 charges false swearing under the 96th Article of War (Manual for Courts-Martial 1921, par.443, p.432, par.
446 II, pp.462,463; CM 198262 (1932), CM 160143 (1924), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, par.451(52), pp.330-331j Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par.152c, p.l9l). The evidence is clear and decisive that accused in his statement of 19 January 1944 (Pros.Ex.C) falsely stated that Van Heuklon was the driver of the vehicle at the time of the collision when in truth accused was driving it. Accused's'testimony furnishes the evidence that such false statement was the result of willful and deliberate premeditation. The offense was fully proved.
- 3 -
(334)
The only question in connection with the finding of accused's guilt arises out of his recantation of his prior statement regarding the identity of the driver of the car on the occasion of the accident when he was again interviewed by the investigating officer on 20 January 1944.
He then declared that* his~prior statement-charging Van Heuklon with responsibility as driver was false and admitted that he, himself, was the ~ . driver. Did this correction of his prior statement purge hls‘ guilt of ' false' swearing?
The Supreme Court of the United States in considering a conviction for perjhry under Sec.125 of the Federal Criminal Code (R.S.5392, 18 USCA., 231) declared:
"Does retraction neutralize false testimony previously given and exculpate the witness of perjury? * * *. The respondent admitted he 1 gave intentionally false testimony on * * *.
His recantation on the following day cannot alter this fact. He would have us hold that so long as the cause or proceeding in which false testimony is given is not closed there remains a locus' poenltentlae of which he- was	‘	'
entitled to and did avail himself. The implications and results of such a doctrine prove its unsoundness. Perjury is an obstruction . . of justice; its perpetration well may affect the dearest concerns of the parties before a ' tribunal. Deliberate material falsification xmder oath constitutes the crime of perjury and the crime is complete when a witness's . statement has once been made. It is argued that to allow retraction of perjured testimony promotes the' discovery of the truth and, if made before the proceeding is concluded, can do no harm to the parties. The argument overlooks the tendency of such a view to encourage false swearing in the belief that if '	the	falsity be not discovered before the end
of the hearihg it will have its intended effect but, if. discovered, the witness may purge hihself of crime' by resuming his role as witness and substituting the truth for his previous falsehood. It ignores the fact that the oath administered to the witness calls on him freely to disclose the truth in the first instance and not to put the court and the parties to the disadvantage, hindrance, and delay of ultimately extracting the truth
- 4 -
(335)
by cross examination, by extraneous investigation or other collateral means. * * *. f We are free, therefore, to give such meaning and effect to § 125 of the Criminal Code as in justice we think ought to be attributed to it. The plain words of the statute and. the public policy whioh called' for its enactment alike demand we should hold that the telling of a deliberate lie by a witness completes the crime defined by the law. This is not to say that the correction of an innocent mistake, or the elaboration of an incomplete answer, may not’demonstrate that there was no wilful intent to swear falsely.
We have here no such case." (United States v.
Norris, 300 U.S. 564,568,573,574,576} 81 L.Ed., 808,810,813,814).
Such being the rule adopted by the Supreme Court in charges of perjury there can be no argument against its adoption in connection with the Jesser offense of false swearing. The Board of Review is of the opinion that accused's retraction of his prior false statement to the officer investigating the vehicular accident did not neutralize or purge his original offense. An opposite rule would place a premium upon falsehood and render more difficult and uncertain the investigations which are highly necessary in the enforcement of discipline. Neither justice nor reason require such holding.
Insofar as the holding in CM 220746 (1942), Bull JAG., Vol.I, No.l, January-June 1942, par.451(53), p.22 conflicts with the instant holding it is not followed*
7.	The charge sheet shows accused as 22 years of age. He served from 13 July 1939 to 14 March 1942 as an enlisted man. Current service} 15 March 1942 to date.
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion/that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. The offenses for which accused was tried may bp punished at the discretion of the court (AW 96). The separation of a warrant officer from the service by sentence of a court-martial is effected by dishonorable discharge, not dismissal. Although the use of a sentence of dismissal is inappropriate, it has the same effect as one of dishonorable discharge (SPJGJ 1943/13066, 5 October 1943, Bull.JAG.yYol.il, No.10,
October 1943, sec.408(2), p.380).
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
(.336)
1st Ind
General, 2nd Armored Division, APO 252, U.S. Army,
1.	In the case of Chief Warrant Officer ARTHUR W. SCHOLBE (W-2104231), Headquarters Company, 2d Armored Division Trains, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50??, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement.
The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1447. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1447).
' E. C. MclffilL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General,
#(337)
