#(1)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General
-with the gA€c . r.u 2APcR 1959
European Theater of Operations..
APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 1100
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private JOSEPH (NMI) SIMMONS	)
(15013511), Headquarters	)
pompany, 2nd Battalion, 10th	)
Infantry.	)
)
)
15 JAN 1944
5TH INFANTKI DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Camp Ballyedmond, County Down, Northern Ireland, 1 December 19A3. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 30 years. United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation of the 6lst Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Joseph Simmon3,
Headquarters Company, 2d Battalion, 10th Infantry, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his organization and station at Tidworth Barracks, England, from about 2400 hours, 21 September, 1943i to about 1800 hours, 29 September, 1943.
CHARGE II:	Violation of the 69th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Joseph Simmons,
Headquarters Company, 2d Battalion, 10th Infantry, having been duly placed in confinement at Camp Ballyedmond, Northern Ireland, on or about 13 October, 1943, did, at Camp Ballyedmond, Northern Ireland, on or about 22 October, 1943, escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.
- 1 -
CHARGE III:	Violation	of the' 58th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Joseph Simmons,’
Headquarters Company, 2d Battalion, 10th Infantry, did, at Camp Ballyedmond, Northern Ireland on or about 22 October, 194-3 desert the service of the United States and did , remain absent in desertion until he was
apprehended at Belfast, Northern Ireland on or about 8 November, 194-3.
ADDITIONAL CHARGE It Violation of the 93d Article of War.'
Specification:	In	that Private Joseph Simmons,
'	Headquarters	Company, 2d Battalion; 10th
Infantry, did, at Belfast, Northern Ireland, on or about 8 November, 1943, with intent to commit a felony, viz, robbery, commit an assault and battery upon Bernard McKeating by willfully and feloniously grabbing hold of and offering and threatening to strike and stab the said Bernard LicKeating in the •	body	with	an	open dagger-like knife.
ADDITIONAL CHARGE II:	Violation	of the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Joseph Simmons,
Headquarters Company, 2d Battalion, 10th '	Infantry,	did,	at Belfast, Northern Ireland,
on or about 8 November 194-3, unlawfully carry a concealed weapon, viz, a dagger-like knife.
He pleaded guilty to charges I and II and their respective specifications; j to the specification, Charge III, guilty "except the words 'desert1 and *in desertion', substituting therefor, respectively, the words 'absent himself without leave from' and 'without leave'," of the excepted words not,guilty, of the substituted words guilty; to charge III, not*guilty but guilty of violation of the 61st Article of War; and not guilty to Additional Charges I and II and their specifications." He was found guilty of all the charges and specifications. Evidence of three previous convictions was introduced: one by special court-martial for cutting a tarpaulin with a knife, one by general court-martial for use of threatening language towards,a superior officer and for carrying a concealed weapon and one by summary court for absence without leave for five days. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 30 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50k.	■
(3)
3.	At the opening of the trial, accused introduced the officer who investigated the charges against him as his individual counsel. The trial judge advocate immediately announced in open court that that officer would be called as a witness for the prosecution (and he was so called) and asked the accused if he still wished him to act as his individual counsel, whereupon the accused again stated that he did desire him to act as counsel. The Board of Review finds this procedure legal and proper.
4.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
5.	The charge sheet shows the accused is twenty-two years and three months of age. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion during time of war (AW 42) and also for assault with intent t<? commit robbery (18 USCA, sec.455). The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania'as the place of confinement is correct (WD, Circular. #291, 10 November 1943, sec.V, par.3a).
- 3 -
U)
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 15 JAN 1944 TO: Commanding General, ,5th Infantry Division, APO 5, U.S. Amy.
,1. In the case of Private JOSEPH (Ml) SIMMONS (15013511), Headquarters Company, 2nd Battalion, 10th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War- 5O5-, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	As the effect upon the rights of citizenship of conviction by court-martial of desertion from the military services in time of war is fully covered by Federal statutes, it appears both unnecessary and inadvisable to mention or include it again in either the action or the General Court-Martial order.
3.	The sentence herein is excessive and unjustifiable for the offenses under the circumstances shown by the record of trial. His case will be re-examined in Washington and, I believe, will result in a very considerable reduction in the sentence. In order to comply with instructions in reference to uniformity of sentences, and so that this theater may not be subject to criticism for returning prisoners to the United States with indefensible sentences which require immediate clemency action by the War Department, I recommend that a substantial part of the sentence be remitted. If this be done, the signed action should be returned to this office for file with the record of trial.
4.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1100. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO llOO^- 1
As sistant Judge Advocate Generals-
1-
#(5)
