#(143)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations . APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 1249 '
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private JOHN (NMl) MARCHETTI ) (325056S5), Company BK", 18th ) Infantry.	.	)
- 7 MAR 1944
1ST INFANTRY DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Dorchester, Dorsetshire, England • 24, 26 November, 23 December 1943. Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 30 years. Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New . York.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW .
RHER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review,
2,	Accused was tried upon the .following Charge and Specification:
. CHARGE:	Violation	of	the 75th Article of War,
Specification: 'In that, Private John Marchetti, _	\
,	Company	K,	18th	Infantry, being present
with his company while it was engaged with the enemy, did at or near Villa Rosa, Sicily, on or about 19 July 1943, shamefully abandon the said company, and seek safety in the rear, and did fail to rejoin it until on or about 17 September 1943, after the engagement was concluded.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be shot to death with musketry. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General of the 1st Infantry Division, found the record of trial legally insufficient to support a finding of guilty of that portion of the Specification as finds that the accused failed to rejoin his company until "on or about 17 September 1943" and returned the record of trial to the court for reconsideration of its action if it so desired. The court
(144)
reconvened and found the accused, of the Specification, guilty; except the words and figures "on or about 17 September 1943"; of the excepted words and figures, not guilty; of the Charge, guilty. It adhered to its former sentence. The reviewing authority thereupon approved the sentence, and forwarded the record to the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations. The confirming, authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence but commuted it to dishonorable discharge from the service, total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become’ due, and confinement at hard labor for 30 years, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York •as the place of confinement and withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of. Article of War 50g-. The action of the confirming authority in commuting the sentence was taken under the provisions of Article of 7/ar 50.
3.	'The prosecution's evidence is as follows:
. First Lieutenant William E. Russell, 18th Infantry, testified, that on or about 19 July 1943 he was a platoon leader of Company K, 18th Infantry. Accused was on duty as an ammunition bearer of one of the machine gun squads of that company. In the latter part of the morning of that date, the company was attacking Villa Rosa, Sicily. It was ordered to move out across a road through a defilade and across a ravine or dry stream bed. During the movement down the road it was subjected to enemy shelling (R5)• Accused was with the platoon, when it crossed the road (R6-7). It was then held up by forward elements. Tlhen the contingent was again ready to move, Lieutenant Russell was informed by the squad-leader that accused could not be found (R6). As the squad moved forward shelling continued about an hour (R24). Shells and mortar fire landed close about it (R25). A soldier, Private Whalen, was knocked unconscious and was prone on the ground (R22). The squad to which accused belonged advanced in extended order on the slope of the gully, and another squad was on the right slope (R24). It was possible to see the entire area in the rear where Lieutenant Russell could see Whalen. Accused could not be found (R22). Private'Sheahan of the other squad was reported missing as, the platoon advanced through the gully or draw (R23). Accused, Whalen and Sheahan were the only men in the machine gun section not accounted for that day (R24).
Corporal Erwin A. Hallett, Company K, 18th Infantry, stated that he was leader of the machine gun Squad of which accused was a member. On 19 July accused was an ammunition carrier. On that date the squad moved to attack toward Villa Rosa, As it advanced across a road it moved into shell fire. Accused.was present with the squad as it crossed the road and as the first shell landed. A gunner was injured at that time. The shelling consisted of artillery fire - 88s and other guns. Upon reaching a partially defiladed area, Hallet took a check of the men and accused was missing. Members of the squad called to accused, but there was no response. He had been under fire previously and acted normally'that day (R8). The next time witness saw accused was in the guardhouse after the company came .. .
2
(H5)
back from the front (R8).
Corporal Dale Stofferson, assistant section leader of the 3rd Battalion Medical Section, testified that on 19 July "about an hour or two after dinner" (R9,10,20) he led a squad of litter bearers into a gully to pick up wounded soldiers (R9). This gully had few trees and was embanked on both sides. He found accused in this gully about 200 yards from a road, posed in a more or less crouching position (R10,ll). It required about 15 minutes to reach accused from the road because of the shelling, passing from "tree to tree" (Rll). When Stofferson asked accused if he were wounded, he answered he was not but that it was "too hot" or words to that effect. He did not appear wounded (RIO). There were two men in’the gully - accused and a soldier not known to witness. The other man was in about the same position as accused (R19,20). There was some shelling at the time. Accused was next seen by Stofferson that night in the company of the other soldier at the aid station where they remained until next morning (R19). A jeep from his company was pointed out to accused and he was told to get on it and return to his company (Rll). Witness did not know whether accused was examined at the aid station, but it was customary to do so even during the confusion of battle (R20).
Private Francis Sheahan, also an ammunition carrier of Company K, on 19 July in a squad other then that of accused testified tjjat there was some "pretty heavy shelling" as the company made this attack. He was "knocked out" while in a small gully.* When he regained consciousness, possibly an hour later - about three p.m.- he noticed accused lying face Jownward some five or ten yards away and crept down to. him, shook him and asked what had happened. Accused replied he had been knocked unconscious (R13) that his head was pretty bad and he was dizzy (R17). The two soldiers "staggered" up the hill and a jeep brought them to the "medics" vho gave them some pills and took care of them for the night,t The next norning a jeep brought them to a new area from which Sheahan returned to his company (R13-14) located across the road some 20 or 30 yards away. Hocused did not accompany him to the company. The next time Sheahan saw accused was in the 'Jlast area" in Sicily (R15).	:
I.	At the close of the case by the prosecution, defense moved for a finding of not guilty in that it was not proved that accused had abandoned his company. The motion was denied and not later renewed. A prima facie case had been made out at that time against accused and denial by the court of the motion was proper. Not having renewed the motion at the close of the taking of testimony, its further consideration was waived by the defense (CM ETO 561, Neville).
The accused elected to remain silent and the defense rested without presenting evidence.
5.	The court recalled Lieutenant Russell (R20) and Corporal Stofferson (R18) for further examination. Their testimony was but a reiteration of that given previously. At the conclusion of this examination the defense moved for a continuance (R26) in order to secure evidence that accused
- 3 -
(146)
"returned to military control well in advance of the time stated in the specification". The motion was taken under advisement by the court which at 1655 hours, 24 November 1943, adjourned to convene at 0900 hours on 26 November 1943*
At the adjourned hour and date the court reconvened. The defense again submitted argument in support of its motion for a continuance (R27,
28) asserting that additional evidence would show that at least a month prior to 17 September 1943 accused was in control of the 175th Engineers and was delivered to the 15th Evacuation Hospital for hospitalization. The motion was denied (R28).
Thereupon without objection of defense the prosecution called Lieutenant Astor Morris, Company K, 18th Infantry, as a witness. Lieutenant Morris was executive officer of the company on '19 July 1943, and upon the company commander being injured he assumed command (R28).	.	He	stated
that on 19-20 July the company was not in a bivouac area, nor was it out of tactical combat formation, and that Company K on the afternoon of 19 July made an attack on Villa Rosa, but was "pulled back during the night and made a sweep around the draw and were in Villa Rosa the next morning" (R29) which place the enemy had evacuated during the night (R28),
6.	The granting or denying of a motion for continuance is within the sound judicial discretion of the court and its action in denying a motion for continuance will "not be disturbed upon appellate review in the absence of a showing of abuse of that discretion (CM ETO 895, Fred A. Davis et al, par.7(a), p.17).	A continuance of the trial in the instant case was de- >
sired by the defense in order to allow it to present evidence that accused was returned to military control at least a month prior to 17 September, the date alleged in the specification when accused returned to his organization and that he was hospitalized at the time. Defence counsel asserted that it would be necessary to communicate with military authorities in Sicily to secure this information. It was- further suggested by the defense that under the Charge and Specification alleging an offense under the 75th Article of War the court might find accused guilty of absence without official leave under the 6lst Article of War and for this reason spch additional evidence was relevant and its absence prejudicial to substantial rights of accused. Without subscribing to the principle of law advanced by defense counsel and . specifically reserving the questiop for future decision, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the court did not abuse its discretion in denying the motion for continuance for the reason that in neither the offense alleged (shamefully abandoning his company) nor in consideration of a charge of absence without leave was the proposed evidence material. Proof that accused abandoned his company while it was before the enemy will sustain a conviction under the 75th Article of War regardless of the length of time he was absent from his duty. Where the misbehavior is based upon proof that accused left his duty station ant) went to the rear, the offense is committed immediately upon and coincidently with his departure from his station.
- 4 -
(147)
" This offense may consist in:- * * *
Such acts by any officer or soldier, as -* * * going to the rear or leaving the command when engaged with the enemy, or expecting to be engaged, or when under fire * * *. NOr will it constitute a defence, or scarcely an extenuation, that the accused .did finally perforin the service required of him or otherwise duly conduct himself before the enemy, if, after having originally misbehaved, he was compelled to such service or conduct by peremptory orders .or by the use'or display of force.
Running away. This is merely a forn^of .misbehaviour before the enemy, and the words 'runs away' might well be omitted from the Article as surplusage” (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents - Reprint - pp.
622,623,624.). . . .
Limitations of punishment for absence without official leave under the 61st Article of War as to offenses committed after 1 December 1942 were suspended by Executive Order 9267, 9 November 1942. Consequently' the length of time accused was absent from his command was an immaterial matter in considering his guilt of such offense. .The denial of the motion was free from error.
7.	Captain Wilson V. Ledley, Field Artillery was appointed a member ' of the court. He was absent on the first day of trial, 24- November 194-3, upon verbal order of commanding general. While not revealed by the record of trial it appears from “Post Trial Remarks of Defense Counsel" dated 15 December 194-3 supported.by a written statement of Captain Ledley which accompany the record, that upon reconvening of the court. Captain Ledley presented himself.. He was excused from participating in the trial by the President and he left the court room. It is alleged by Defense Counsel that substantial rights of accused were thereby prejudicially affected. Neither the President nor the court have general authority to excuse , members (CM 121765 (1918), CM 121768 (1918), CM 122789 (1918), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, par.395(46), p.23l), but
“Where a member of a general court-martial has been absent during the taking of evidence in the progress of trial of a case, it is proper for the court to exclude such member from further participation in the trial because of such absence (250.4, 11 Jun 1918, Dig.Ops.JAG., par.395(46), p.230).
The action of the President in excusing Captain Ledley under the circumstances of the case was not only free from error, but also avoided the intrusion into the trial proceedings of an awkward and serious legal question. (Cf: ’Jinthrop's Military Law & Precedents - Reprint - pp.175-176).
(H8)
8.	The 75th Article of War provides in pertinent part:
"Misbehavior Before the Eenemy.- Any officer or soldier who, before the enemy, misbehaves himself, runs away, or shamefully abandons or delivers up or by any misconduct, disobedience, or neglect endangers the safety of any fort, post, camp, guard, or other command which it is his duty to defend,
* * .
The following interpretative comments of the foregoing article in addition to those hereinbefore quoted are pertinent:
"a. MISBEHAVIOR BEFORE THE EUELff * * *
Misbehavior is not confined to acts of cowardice. It is a general term, and as here used it renders culpable under the article any conduct by.an officer or soldier not conformable to the standard of behavior.before the enemy set by the history of our arms. Running away is but a particular form of misbehavior specifically made punishable by this article. * * *.
Under this clause may be charged any act of treason, cowardice,. insubordination, or like conduct committed by an officer or soldier in the presence of the enemy."
(Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par.141a,
p.156).
i	4.
"An officer or'soldier who culpably fails to do his whole duty before the enemy will be equally chargeable with the offence as if he had deliberately proved recreant.
* * *.
The act or acts, in the doing, not doing, or allowing of which consists the offence, must be conscious and voluntary on the part of the offender. * * *.
Defence. Beside negativing the facts charged, the accused may show' in defence •that in wfiat he did he was acting under the orders or authority of a competent superior, or was properly exercising the discretion which his rank, command, or duty, or the peculiar circumstances of the case, entitled him to use. He may also show that he was suffering under a genuine and extreme illness or other disability at the time of the
- 6 -
(U?)
alleged misbehaviour" (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents - Reprint - pp.623,624.).
(a) The gravamen of the offense against accused is contained-within the following allegations:
"Uarchetti * * * being present with his-company while it was engaged with the enemy * * * did * *,* shamefully abandon the said company, and seek safety in the rear".1
While this specification is modeled upon form 46- (Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, p.244) it is to be noted that it follows that part of the 75th Article of War which pertains to the abandonment of "any fort, post, camp, guard or command". There is therefore presented a situation which requires particularized consideration of the statute to determine its application in the instant case. A diagrammatic visualization of the part of the Article relevant to the present problem will be helpful:
Any officer)
)before the
or
soldier
who
enemy
(1)	misbehaves himself
(2)	runs away
or
(3)	shamefully abandons
or
or
(4) deliyers up
(a)
(b)
(5) by any
)any ) which jfort j it is misconduct )	)post ) his
disobedience)endangers)camp ) duty to or.	)	the )guard) defend
(c) neglect )safety of) or )
)other) command)
The evidence in this case establishes the indisputable fact that accused, when his squad was advancing toward the enemy in the direction of Villa Rosa, Sicily, deliberately and without authority ran away from it. The evidence is therefore such as would consistently and appropriately " support this averment:
"Marchetti * * * being present with his company while it was engaged with the enemy ran away from his company and did not return, etc."
There was an apparent endeavor on the part of the draughtsman to lay his allegations in such form as to bring the same under the following denouncement of the statute:
"Any * * * soldier who, before the enemy * * * shamefully abandons * * * any * * * command which it is his duty to defen^"
(Underscoring supplied).
7
(150)
The pleading, however, fails to include the highly relevant allegation "which it is his duty to defend11. It is therefore manifest that if the legal sufficiency of the record depends upon this provision of the Article only, a serious question would be presented as to whether the specification states facts constituting an offense under this particular clause of the Article. Fortunately, however, the allegations of the Specification are sufficiently broad to avoid this dilemma. It is alleged that Marchetti "did shamefully abandon the said company, and seek safety in the rear". Synonyms of "abandon" are: leave, quit, renounce, resign, surrender, relinquish, vacate, remit, discard, forswear (Webster’s Hew International Dictionary - 2nd Ed.). Judicially "abandon" has been defined as totally withdrawing oneself from an object; laying aside all care for it; Reaving it altogether to itself (Pidge v. Pidge, 44 Mass.(3 Mete.) 257,265. Of: 1 W. & P. Perm.4).	The Specification’s allegations are
beyond doubt equivalent to the allegation "did- run away from his company".. Interpreted in 3uch manner the Specification clearly alleged facts conT stituting an offense under the clause of the Article which denounces as an offense the act of a soldier who "before the enemy runs away".
(b)	In order to constitute an offense under the 75th Article of War the various acts of dereliction of duty by an accused must be committed "before the enemy". Winthrop comments as follows upon its meaning:
"'Before the enemy.' This term is defined by Samuel as- 'in the face or presence of the enemy.1 It is not necessary, however, that the eneny should be in sight. If he is confronting the army or in its neighborhood, though separated from it by a considerable distance, and the service upon ' which the party is engaged, or which he is especially ordered or properly required by his military obligation to perform, be one directed against the enemy, or resorted to in view of his movements, the misbehaviour committed will be 'before the enemy* in the •sense of the Article." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents - Reprint - pp.623-624).
"Whether a person is 'before the enemy' is not a question of definite distance, but is one of tactical relation". (Manual for '	Courts-Martial	1928,	par,lAla,-p.156).
/ 1
The Specification fails to allege in the words of the statute that accused was "before the eneny" when he ran away from his company. However, it does' allege that he was "present with his company while it was engaged with the enemy". The phrase "engaged with the enemy" is properly construed as an allegation of place as well as i^lme. It; is identical in meaning with "before the enemy" (CM, France, 24 May 1919, QAJAG 201-4170,
- 8 -
(151)
Samuel Stone: CM France,- 28 January 1919, GAJAG 201-1200, Franci3 Slagle). The Specification, therefore, alleges the crucial fact that accused was "before the enemy" when he "ran away"«
(c)	The evidence in the instant case without contradiction shows that the company to which accused, an ammunition bearer, belonged was moving to the attack on Villa Rosa, Sicily, on the morning of 19 July 1943# Accused's company was ordered to "move out across a road", and it then > entered a gully or ravine.	It advanced in extended order and was under,
direct fire of the enemy.	Its progress was then "held up by forward i
elements". It was at this time and place’that accused chose to leave his squad * He was discovered in the rear of the advance some time later and thereafter went to a first-aid station where he remained over-night. The next morning he did not report to his company. He was absent therefrom for an undetermined but considerable period of time. The duration of his absence is immaterial in considering his guilt of the present charge.
Accused therefore was "before the enemy" at the time he departed from his squad which was actively engaged in combat. Such fact was obviously known to the accused inasmuch as he was present when the enemy shelled the road across which the detachment was to pass. He informed Stofferson it was "too hot". Assuming that accused was truthful when he stated to Sheahan that he was knocked unconscious through shell explosions the evidence shows that he must have suffered such disability after he left the line of advance and while he was in the rear, and not while he was with his squad.
The evidence establishes beyond a reasonable doubt that accused was guilty of "going to the rear or leaving the command when engaged with the enemy" and this constituted an offense tinder the 75th Article of War (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents - Reprint - p.623] CM NATO 397, Barbieri and Bilcavitch: CM NATO 431, Pagano and Poplar; CM NATO 192, Cavaleri; CM, France, 26 May 1919, QAJAG 201-4498, Dominick: CM, France,
28 January 1919, OAJAG 201-1200, Slagle).
9.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of age and was inducted at Fort Jay, New‘York 17 September 1942 to serve for the duration and six months. He had no prior service.
10.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. The sentence imposed is authorized (AW 75). Violations of the 75th Article/of War constitute military offenses] hence confinement in the Eas;ten#l Rrfihch jjrlfciplinary Barracks is proper.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)_________
- 9
* ?
1st Ind
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. " 7 MAR 1944 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private JOHN (NMI) MARCHETTI (32505685), Company "K", 18th Infantry, attention is invited to the £bregoing holding hy the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which hqlding is hereby approved.
2.	Attention is invited to the designated place of confinement, which should be changed to the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven. New York (par.2a, sec.VI, Cir. #210, 14 September 1943 as amended by par.2, sec.II, Cir. #331, 21 December 1943). This may be done in the published general court-martial order*
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1249. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1249).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCM0 16, ETO, 13 Mar 1944)
-1-
#(153)
