#(135)
UU?i, . IlrtL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 564.
UNITED STATES )'
)
v.	)
)
Private DONALD (NTJl) NEVILLE	)
(12021600), Casual Replacement	)
Group (Provisional).	)
)
)
)
)
YffiSTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLT, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.I.I., convened at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, 19-20 March 1943., Sentence: Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement for 18 months. Disciplinary-Training Center No. 1, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England.
OPINION of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there 'found legally insufficient to support the findings. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review, and the Board submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	58th	Article	of	War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	Donald	Neville,
Casual Replacement Group (Provisional) did,_ at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England on, or about 20 January 1943, desert the service of the United States by absenting himself without proper leave from his organization, with intent to avoid hazardous duty, to wit: Transfer to an overseas station, and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Lichfield, Staffordshire,
England on or about 21 January 1943.
- 1 -
CONFiD
L0 i\ ( ! l/ l!VT; rtL
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Mo evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for eighteen months.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier’s release from confinement, and designated Disciplinary Training Center No. 1, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, as the place of confinement.
The proceedings were published in General Court-Martial Orders No. 41, Headquarters, Western'Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515, U. S. Army dqted 21 June 1943.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution is substantially as follows;
It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense "that the accused is Private Donald (NMl) Neville, ASN 12021600, and that Private Donald (NMl) Neville was assigned to 2211-B on 20th January 1943; that he was a member of the organization on 20 January 1943” (R 10). Unit 2211-B "was stationed at the 10th Replacement Depot (Lichfield, Staffordshire, England) and departed from that station between the 18th and 20th January 1943 (R 6). It was also stipulated by the prosecution and the defense that if a Colonel Killian were present he would testify that "Unit 2211-B left in two groups - one lot at about 11;45 by train and the other shortly after midnight - in two special trains" (R 48). It was further stipulated that if Second Lieutenant Casper F. Betson, Infantry were present he would testify in substance that on the morning of 21 January 1943 he entered the barracks of Company C, TF (Task Force) 2211-B. Upon receiving certain information he made inquiries concerning a soldier then in the barracks. The soldier was accused, who told Lieutenant Betson "that he had missed his shipment" and that he did not have any orders to do so. Accused was then confined (R.10-11).
Between 16-20 January a large quantity of clqthing was issued (R 7). Eighty rounds of ammunition were issued to each man between
5-6 o'clock on the evening of 20 January. Rifles were issued on either the 15th or 16th of January (R 8).
4.	For. the defense, accused testified that he was assigned to unit 2211-B in the United States and that he arrived at the unit's station (Lichfield, England) 16 January 1943 (R 27). On direct examination accused testified in part as follows;
"Q. What did the issue of these articles - what did that convey to you?
A, I thought we were going to move out sooner or later - we were told that in the States, that we had just 'stopped off' here,
Q. Were you told for where?
A. No sir.
2	-
• JLii i i?tl.
(137)
•jiL-EiiFIAL
Q. You understood for an overseas place?
A. Yes.
Q. Did anybody tell you where you would go when you left here?
A. No sir." (R 28).
On cross-examination accused testified:
"Q. During all this time - do you remember having to fall in on the parade ground?
A. I was not assigned - never saw anybody the following day - not on the.18th sir.
Q. But you did know you were going to go overseas?
A, I did know when I came over to this country. I knew this was only a stopping off place." (R 34)•
On the evening of 16 January he went on pass to Erdington, two miles from Birmingham, and saw a girl (R 28, 32-33). The girl, whose name was Caroline Tate, lived at Erdington (R 30) and accused had first met her on 1$ January 1943 (R 43). On the nights of 17 and 18 January he went to see her at Lichfield (R 28-29, 33-34). From 16-18 January the men of unit 2211-B were members of a battalion. On 18 January they were transferred to’companies and accused was assigned to Company D (R 28) On 18 January they were furnished - impregnated clothing, gloves, an extra pair of shoes, eye shields, gas cape and rifle (R 28, 31-32). On 19 January accused requested a pass which was not obtained. At 4*30 P.M., the men were informed that they were restricted and that no passes would be allowed as equipment was to be issued (R 29,31,34,40). During the evening of 19 January canteens were issued and the men were instructed how to roll blankets in the shape of a horse-shoe, and how to pack the rest of their equipment in their barrack bagsl Rations were also issued. When he finished packing his bag accused went to bed at 10:00 P.M. (R 32,44--45) The men were then living from a full field pack and had to unroll their packs in order to use their blankets that evening. The barrack bags were packed except for toilet sets which were kept out for use (R 41). After he became a member of Company D and subsequent to 16 January^ the Articles of tfar, including Articles 28 and 61, had been read and explained to accused who understood their significance (R 34-35,40). On 20 January accused remained*in. camp until about 8:30 P.M. when he asked the platoon sergeant "what the score was". He "figured we was going to move out" ancl wanted to see Miss Tate’and ask her to marry him, believing he could get back at midnight (R’2$,35). The sergeant told accused that the men were restricted for a few days, that they had to "stick around1', but that nothing would happen for’a day or two, probably Friday or Saturday (22-23 January) (R 29-30,35,38). The sergeant*also stated that no passes would be issued (R 43). At about 8:30 P.M. accused left camp and went to Erdington to ask Miss Tate to marry him! He knew that by doing so he would be absent without leave (R 29-30,35)1 Before he left, shortages were being issued (R 42). He proposed marriage, became engaged and
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CiKiJE^AL
started back to camp at lit4-5 P.M. Although the weather was clear when he left camp, it became foggy at 10:00 P.W! He walked 18 miles and arrived in camp at 5:4-5 A.M. 21 January! He found that his company had left, the barrack bags were missing'and there was no equipment around. Accused was very tired and went to sleep.	The following morning he was
awakened by a lieutenant. He was taken to the guard house after he disclosed the name of his organization (R 29-31,36,41-42). When accused left ca^np at 8:30 P.U. 20 January, his field pack was ready except for the blankets and toilet set. However, he could have been ready to move in ten minutes (R 36,41). He denied that the organization had been alerted. When an organization is alerted the alert "is read or posted up". No such action had been taken and nothing had been'said about an alert (R 36-37). He had previously stood one alert. Had there been an alert on this occasion, the men would have been so informed and told to stand by. However, they were informed only that they were restricted (R 38). The platoon sergeant had also informed accused that there would not be any movement until the end of the week (R 37-38). No ammunition had been issued, there was no undue movement or additional activity, nor had accused heard of any orders (R 42-43).
5.	Miss Caroline Tate of Erdington, Birmingham, a rebuttal witness for the prosecution, testified that she first saw accused in Birmingham on a Friday in January (15th). He came to see her on Monday or Tuesday (18th and 19th) but she was not at home. She saw him on Wednesday night (20th) when accuse^ told her the unit was leaving and asked her to marry him. She accepted (R 50-53). Accused told her that "the men might be leaving that night". She wanted to know when she would see him again and he replied that he did not know, that "he might be put in the guard room" but he offered no explanation when she asked~the reason for“his statement (R 51,54-55). Accused arrived between 7:30-8:00 o’clock on Wednesday night (20th), and left about 10:30 (R 53). Miss Tate had never seen accused in Lichfield;'she was going to come but"did’not (R 50,53) 9-nd had met him twice only (R 50,54).
6.	The order appointing the court lists Lieutenant Colonel Orville W. Harris, Infantry (0-190326) as the senior member. In accounting for the court, the name of Lieutenant Colonel Theodore C. Wenzlaff, (0-16448), Transportation Corps, appears first and with the designation "President". Trial occurred on 19-20 March 1943. ~ Informal inquiry discloses that Lieutenant Colonel Wenzlaff was promoted to Colonel on 26 February 1943, became senior member of the court, and therefore acted as president. The fact that the record does not disclose these facts does not affect the validity of the proceedings.
7.	After the prosecution had rested its case the defense moved "that all facts stated by witnesses pertaining to what occurred prior to Jan 16, 1943 be stricken ***". With the exception of the testimony of one witness (Sergeant Adams), the court granted the motion. The defense then moved for a finding of not guilty on the ground that it was not proved
uk.fiDENTIAL
(139)
that accused had absented himself without leave (R 26). The motion was denied (R 27). The subsequent testimony of accused contained many pertinent-facts not developed by the evidence introduced by the prosecution.
"Error in denying a motion for dismissal or non-suit, made at the close of the state's case, is waived where accused proceeds with trial by presenting his evidence, and does not, at the close of the whole case, renew his motion, or move for an instructed verdict. The failure of accused to stand on his motion requires a consideration of all the evidence, and if on such consideration there is sufficient evidence to sustain a conviction, the denial of the motion is not-ground for complaint." (23 C.J.S.. -sec.1149c, pp.681-682). (Underscoring supplied).
If the evidence which had been produced by the prosecution when the defense made its motion had warranted *a finding of guilty of the lesser offense of absence without leave, a denial of the motion of the court would have been proper (I5CI.I., 1928, par.71^, p.56). The Board of’Review expresses no opinion as to whether such evidence would in fact have supported such a finding. However, after denial of its motion the defense proceeded with the trial, presented evidence and did not renew its motion at the olose of the case. As will be subsequently shown, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the complete' evidence is legally sufficient to "sustain a conviction", namely that of absence without leave. Therefore, in view of the foregoing citation the Board is of the opinion that the denial by tho court of the motion by the defense for a finding of not guilty was not error.
8.	It is provided in Article of War 28 that:
«*** Any person subject to military law who quits his organization or place of duty with the intent to avoid hazardous duty or to shirk important service shall be deemed a deserter."
The Manual for Courts-Martial provides:
"Desertion is absence without leave accompanied by the. intention not to return, or to avoid hazardous duty .or to shirk important service." (I.ICM., 1928, par. 130a-, p.142).
"The 'hazardous duty' or 'important service* may include such service as ***** embarkation for foreign duty or duty beyond the continental limits of the United.States. ***" (MCM., 1928, par.130a, p.143).
- 5 -
nnMnnrMTm
(HO)
It is -alleged that accused deserted the service of the United States by absenting himself without leave from his organization with "intent to avoid hazardous duty, to-wits Transfer to an overseas station ***". One element necessary to sustain the charge of desertion is proof that accused’s organization "was under orders or anticipated orders involving *** hazardous duty" which accused sought to evade (MCM., 1921, par.4-09* P.-34-4-). -It was established in evidence that accused’s organization, 2211-B, left its station at Lichfield in -two groups, one at about 11:4-5 P.M. 20 January, and one at shortly after midnight, that is on the morning of 21 January 194-3. There was no proof of the nature of the duty to be performed. The record of trial is silent as to the unit's destination. It might have left the British Isles or merely have departed for another station within the United Kingdom itself. There was no proof that accused knew the destination of his organization when it left Lichfield. He admitted that when he left the United States he knew that his unit was going overseas and that England was only a "stopping off place". Such evidence is not of itself sufficient proof of his knowledge that his organization was in fact leaving for an overseas station on the night of 20-21 January. Thus, one essential element of the offense alleged was not established in evidence (CM ETO 4-55, Nigg).
In order to sustain the finding of guilty it is also necessary that the evidence be legally sufficient to support the conclusion that accused intended by his absence to avoid the hazardous duty alleged.
The evidence plainly shows that on 20 January accused knew that his organization would, in all probability, depart in the near future. The men were restricted and accused's own equipment was fully packed with the exception of his blankets and toilet set. He would have been able to finish packing in ten minutes. Rations had been issued and no passes could be obtained. The organization had been- completely equipped. On 20 January accused "figured we was going to move out" and asked the platoon sergeant "what the score was". He testified that the platoon sergeant told him that nothing' would happen for a day or two. He admitted that when he left at 8:30 P.K., to see Miss Tate, he was absent without leave. He told her that the unit was leaving and that "the men might be leaving that night."
However, accused had left camp on the nights of 16, 17 and 18 January for the purpose of seeing Miss Tate. _ On each occasion he had returned voluntarily.- His statement that the reason for his absence on 20 January was to ask her to marry him was corroborated by the testimony of the girl herself. On that evening he left camp at 8:30 P.M., and began his return journey about three hours later. There was no evidence that when he left at 8:30 P.M., accused had actual knowledge that his unit would leave later that evening, nor is his statement to-Miss Tate that the men might be leaving that night sufficient proof of such knowledge. His further statement that he "might be put in the guard-room" is as well explained by his knowledge that he was then absent without leave, as it is a basis for concluding that accused believed he would be confined because his unit would depart without him. After his
6
CUD
. >iT; ~ » M
Al
proposal had been accepted, accused walked 18 niles to camp arriving about 10 hours after his departure. lie returned voluntarily as he had done after his previous visits. There is no proof that accused knew when his unit would actually leave. He did know that he had broken restriction and was absent without authority. He knew that he was taking a chance, but his short absence and the fact that he walked 18 miles to get back negatives an intent to avoid leaving with his organization. His arrest on apprehension was in the barracks of his organization. The fact that accused intended to avoid the hazardous duty alleged was not established. However, it was proved, and accused admitted, that he went absent without leave. The evidence is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty as involves absence without leave for ten hours in violation of Article of Y/ar 61, and legally sufficient to support the sentence (CM ETO 4-55 - Nigg).
9. Accused is 22 years of age. He enlisted 6 December 194-0 for the duration of the war plus six months and had no prior service.
10. For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of the Charge and Specification as involves findings that accused did, at the place and time alleged, absent himself without leave from his organization and did remain absent without leave until he was arrested at Dhittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, in violation of Article of War 61, and legally sufficient to support the sentence.
TirtL
- 7 -
(U2)
1st Ind
Yd), Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. ” £	'' V	TO;	Commanding
General, ETOUSA., U.S. Arny, APO 887.
1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 50£ as amended by the act of August 20, 1937 (50 Stat. 724.; 10 U.S.C. 1522) and as further amended by Public Law 693, 77th Congress, August 1, 1942 is the record of trial in the case of Private DONALD (NI.ll) NEVILLE (12021600), Casual Replacement Group (Provisional), APO 874.
2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and for the reasons stated therein recommend that so much of the findings of guilty of the Charge and the Specification be vacated as involves findings of guilty of an offense by accused other-than absence without'leave at the place and time alleged, terminated by arrest at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England in violation of Article of War 61, that the sentence be approved, but that all rights, privileges and property of which the accused may have been deprived by reason of that portion of the findings of guilty so vacated, viz; conviction of desertion in time of war, be restored.
3.	Inclosed is a form, of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinabove made, should such action meet with your approval. Also draft GC1.I0 for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return record of trial .with required copies of GCKO.
3	Incls;
Inc.l; Record of Trial. Inc.2; Form of Action. Inc.3: Draft GCLI0.
(Findings vacated in part in accordance with recommendation of the Assistant Judge Advocate General. Sentence approved.
GCM0 17, ET0, 4 Aug 1943)
brigadier General, United States Army, 'Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(143)
