#(381)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APO 871 ,
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 1519
UNITED STATES )
)
.	)
)
Private FRANK (Mil) BARTEL	)
(38111355). 322nd Replace-	)
ment Company, 49th Replace-	)
ment Battalion, 10th Replace-	)
ment Depot".	)
)
)
)
- 7 MAR 1944
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England 8 February 1944* Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 15 years United States Penitentiary, Lewis-burg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOABD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BEN3CIDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
.1* The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Boprd of Review.
2. The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
» CHARGE Ir . Violation of the 58th Article of War. ,	,
Specification:	Ip	that	Private Frank (Mil) Bartel,
322nd Replacement Company, 49th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield Stafford-,	shire,	England, on or about. 14 November 1943*
desert the, service of the United States and did • , remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at "Prescott, Lancashire, England, on or about 21 January 1944*
CHARGE II:	Violation of the 9^rd .Article of War.
(Nolle prosegui)
Specification:	(Nolle	prosequi) 1
1
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence was introduced of two previous convictions, one by special court-martial for absence without leave for 73 days, one by summary court-for absence without leave for five days, both in violation of Article of War 6l. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due pr to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 20 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but reduced the period of confinement to 15 years, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewis-burg, Pennsylvania /as the pl,ace of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War
it	it
3,	Accused's absence without leave from Lichfield from 14 November 1943 to 21 January 1944 is established ly his own admission to Police Sergeant Harold Wolstencroft, Lancashire Constabulary, and by his own testimony (R9-10, 12-15; Pros.Ex.A). He was apprehended at Presco.tt, Lancashire, England, on 21 January 1944 at 0300 hours clad in civilian clothing which he was wearing over his uniform (R9). He wore no head-dress. He admitted to Wolstencroft that he bought the grey flannel trousers from a soldier in Liverpool "today*, and that he, bought the brown overeoat »in Chester a few days ago" (RIO). He testified that he had obtained both articles of cloth-iig from a British soldier in Liverpool *two or three days before I got picked up", that he had not worn this clothing before the day of his apprehension, and that he wore these clothes only for the purpose of avoiding seizure by thp military police before he reached Lichfield to surrender himself. If he had secured a ride, he would have taken them off and arrived at camp in his uniform. He was trying to save the government money in the matter of transporting him to his station (RI3-I4). Asked what he had been doing all the time he was absent, accused replied;
i	*
"Well, s'ir, I had a little money and I stayed with a British soldier for a while, stayed at his house, and I stayed , with some of his relatives, and went .	'	"
, different places — to London, for one,
,	and	Liverpool	for another" (E13).	.	>
.	r	>
He asserted that he had no intent to remain away permanently at any time during his absence (R13). At the time of his arrest by Wolstencroft, he had on his person "an identity card issued by the United States authorities, which was identical with his description" (R9).	.	•’
4.	Since absence without leave was established by the testimony of accused as well as by evidence offered by the prosecution, the only question is whether the record contains sufficient evidence of accused's specific intent not to return to the military service of the United States (AW 5^)»
In the opinion of the Board of Review, such specific intent is established by his long continued absence of over two months, by his admitted presence in London and Liverpool near United States military installations with no effort made to surrender himself, and by his seizure by civil police while
dressed in civilian clothing (CMETO 1412.Medeiros, and cases cited therein; CM ETO 1515, Smith).
- 2 _
(383)
5» The charge sheet shows that accused is 23 years seven months of age and was inducted at Fort Sam Houston, Texas 15 June 1942. He had no prior service.
6.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were oomnitted during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence* The punishment for desertion committed in time of war is death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct (AW 58). The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement is authorized (AW ij2j WD, Circular #291, sec.V, 3ii arui 8, 10 November 1943)*
judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)________JUdge	Advocate
3	-
1st Ind,
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. • -	-7	MAR 1944 TO* Commanding
Officer* Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515* U.S. Army,
1.	’ In the case of Private FRANK (NMI) BARTEL’(38III355), 322nd Replacement Con?)any, 49th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War	y°u	now,have authority to order
execution of the sentence,
2* - When copies of the published order are forwarded to this ... - ■- -office, they should be accompanied by the'foregoing holding and this indorsement* The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1519* For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 1519),
E,	C, MCNEIL,
^Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General,
- 1 A
#(385)
