#(227)
( )
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the'
European Theater of Operations ABO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1327
UNITED STA'TES )
)
v.	)
)
First Lieutenant KEN1ETH E.	)
URIE, (0-1549400)* Ordnance	)
attached 1806th Ordnance	)
Company, 97th Service Group,	y
19 FEB 1944
Vm FIGHTER COMMAND
Trial by G.C.M. » convened at AAF 'Station F-341* 28 December 1943* Sentence 1 To be dismissed the service.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RTi'KR, VAN BENSCHOTEN ‘and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1. The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge' Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
1
~ 2. Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications!
i
CHARGE I* Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification* In that 1ST LT. KENNETH E. URIE, attached l8o6th Ordnance Company, 97th Service Group, did at AAF Station F-367»oii or about 30 October 1943* feloniously take, steal, and carry away one pair pink trousers, one tan khaki shirt, value about $20,00,'the property of 2ND LT. RUSSELL F.* STAHDACHER.
i
CHARGE II* Violation of the 96th Article of War.
(Motion granted for finding of not guilty)
Specification* (Motion granted for finding of not guilty)
He pleaded not guilty, and was found guilty of the Specification of Charge I except the words *$20.00*, substituting therefor the words *$4.00*, of the excepted woi*ds, not guilty, of the substituted wordss guilty, and guilty of Charge I," A motion by the defense 'for a finding of not guilty of the 1
1
(228) - -
Specification of Charge II was granted by the court. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. Ke was sentenced to be dismissed the service'. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, VIII Fighter Command, approved the sentence and forwarded the'record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 48* The confirming'authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50&*
3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows in substance that on 29 October 1943* accused arrived at Army Air Force Station F-3&7 together with Second Lieutenant Raymond J". Johnson, attached 1806th Ordnance Company, and the	f £§geme room mates. Second Lieutenant
Russell F. Staudacner,/Headquarters Squadron, 97th Service Group, vho occupied another room in the same hut, returned to the‘station on 30 October after a week's absence at Widewing (R5-7»23). When he left for Widewing a pair of pink trousers'and a tan khaki shirt were hanging on the wall of his room. ;The trousers, which were purchased1 about March 1943* were stamped "Russell F. Staudacher, 0-570374"* and the shirt, purchased in July or August 1942, bore the markings "S5754" and "Stau" (r6-7)‘. After 30 October he discovered that the shirt was missing from : his room, and during the third week in November he found that the trousers were also missing (RIO,12-13). He did not lend these articles nor did' he give anyone permission to use them (R7-8). He reported his loss to his commanding officer about the third week in November (RIIa-12).
On 1 December, Lieutenants Staudacher and Johnson searched accused's room at the latter's suggestion and found the former's shirt under the bed in a pillow case containing soiled laundry. Staudacher notified Captain Charles E. Bartels, 1221st Military Police Company (Aviation) who went to the room, removed the shirt from the pillow case and found Staudacher's trousers rolled up under some impregnated clothing in a "Val-Pac" which hung on the wall. The trousers and shirt were identified at the trial by Staudacher, Johnson and Bartels and were admitted in evidence (R8-9,' 14-15* 24-25; Pros. Exs. 1,2). It was stipulated that the "reasonable market value" of the trousers and shirt was $3 and $1 respectively (R17; Pros.Ex.3).
Sometime after 1 December, accused told Lieutenant Staudacher that he planned to go to a dance, that he entered all the rooms to find some trousers, that he borrowed Staudacher's because they were the only ones which fitted him, and that he did not know him at that time (R9)«
Shortly after their arrival at the station on 29 October, because his own clothes had not arrived, accused borrowed Lieutenant Johnson's trousers with the latter's permission. He wore them until the two officers ceased to live together about two week? later (R23-24* 26). Johnson observed accused wearing pink trousers after their separation (R24). He told Johnson after 1 December that Staudacher's trousers were too long and too big for him (R25).
- 2 -
(229)
Cleaning facilities were available on the post between 30 October - 1 December'. Dry. cleaning was sent on Wednesdays and was returned in about two weeks. Laundry was sent weekly (Rl6).
*
On or about 6 December, after he was warned of his rights, accused made a statement, to Staff Sergeant Philip C. Brennan, Criminal Investigation Division, stationed at Camhddge, England. The statement, which was reduced to writing by Brennan and signed by accused, was admitted in evidence (R18-20} Bros.Ex.4).- He stated in pertinent part as follows j	1
*1 reported to A.A.F Station. F-3&7 on Oct.
26, '43 from the replacement depot at Chorley. *****.
When I arrived on this station I came minus my personal clothing and equipment.
About Oct. 30, »43 I intended visiting Stamford and since I did not have a suitable pair of trousers to wear, I went into an officer's room in my hut. **** There was no one in the room. I took a pair of officer's pink trousers from a hook on the bedroom wall and wore them to Stamford that evening. I took these trousers without „ the owner's permission and have not returned them. ***** At the time I took Lt. Staudacher's trousers, I noticed that they had a name marked on the inside and thought at the time that the name wasj "Stovall”.
At about tne same time I took a tan Khaki shirt from the Officer's Club on thiq base. At the time I took the shirt I made . no attempt to get the owner's permission.
» I wore this shirt once and then put it in my soiled laundry.
I had the intentions at the time I took the above two articles of having them cleaned and pressed and returning them to their owner.
I knew where the trousers belonged, but did not know who the owner of the shirt was. I intended leaving the shirt in the place where I found it.
Up to Wed. Dec. 1, '43 when the shirt and trousers were seized by Capt. Bartels, the 1 Post Provost Marshal, I made no attempt to locate the owners of the articles taken from my room.
I was and am aware of the fact that cleaning facilities are available to officers on this post.
3	-
h. 2-have read my statement of 3 page3 and it is true."
4* For the defense.accused testified in substance as followsi
He arrived in England 17 October with a "Vel-Pac" and musette bag. Among other belongings he had two pairs.of "O.D.1! trousers and . two *0 JD. * shirts. His foot locker.and bedding roll which were on his boat were supposed to be delivered to him about one week later (R30).
He took a shirt from Lieutenant Staudacher's room and wore it. He also took a 3hirt belonging to Staudacher1 from the officer's club.
He had this second shirt laundered and returned it to its owner a week before trial. About 10 November he took a pair of trousers from Staudacher 's room and wore them to a dance that evening. He took the shirt from the room "long before" he took the trousers. Accused knew that it was wrong to take the clothing and he did not have permission to do so (R31-34.3&)* He decided that the trousers were too large for him. He stated, "I put them on and they were too large for me and I decided that they were.of no value to m^, and because he soiled them he was going to have the trousers cleaned and to return them. He planned to send the shirt to the laundry. He'did not at any time intend to keep the articles permanently (R31-32). .He rolled up the trousers and put them in his "Val-Pac" where he usually kept his dry cleaning, and placed the shirt in his laundry bag (R32). After he discovered Lieutenant Staudacher's identity and foupd that he was a "pretty swell fellow", accused was somewhat ashamed and decided to return the clothing without, his knowledge after they were cleaned.
However, because of his own "negligence" he was not able to have the shirt and trousers cleaned and to return them before they were discovered (R35). He made no effort to return the articles before they were found on 1 December nor did he inform Staudacher that he had them in his possession. He knew that cleaning facilities were available on the post but did not have the trousers cleaned although he had another pair of pink trousers which he could have worn and which did not belong to either Johnson or Staudacher. His own two pairs of •O.D.* trousers were "very dirty" and "greasy" and he did not hare them cleaned because he "had to have some to work in" (R33-35)*
> -
5* Recalled as a witness by the court, accused further testified that he had a pair of pink trousers in the baggage which was to be delivered later (R39)t that he received his foot locker 19 December and his bedding roll 23 December (R36-37)< No Quartermaster sales store or Quartermaster representative was on the post during the month of November. His allotments totalled $20o.6q and he personally	,
received $102 of his pay. He was paid on 3^ October. During the latter part of November he went to London to meet a friend. He , arrived about noon, and waited until late afternoon for his friend who did not appear. He had no .opportunity to buy any clothing and returned to his station that evening. At the time he wore a pair of pink trousers which he borrowed from an officer whose nane he could not recall.
- 4 .
(231)
It was not Lieutenant Johnson* When he took Lieutenant Staudacher's trousers it appeared that "they had just been cleaned and pressed■*
They then bore •little tear marks", but accused was responsible for certain grease spots, and also for some creases which were caused by the fact that he rolled them up in order to prevent them from becoming * muddy (R37-38)»
1
Also recalled as a witness by the court. Lieutenant Staudacher testified that the trousers were *very much more soiled* at the time of trial than when he departed for Widewing (R39-40)*
6. The undisputed evidence shows that accused took the articles alleged from Lieutenant Staudacher's room without the latter's knowledge or consent* 'Staudacher and accused lived in the same hut* The only question presented for consideration is whether he intended to deprive the owner permanently of his property* Accused denied that he had such an intentfiny time and testified that he planned to Lav® the clothing cleaned and to return it*
•The existence of the intent must in most cases be inferred from the circumstances*•
(Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par*149£U P.173).
Lieutenant Staudacher returned to his billet on 30 October after a week's absence* Accused testified that he took the trousers on or about 10 November .and that he took the shirt "long before^ he took the trousers*
These articles were discovered in his room oh 1 December* During this interval he made no effort to return the shirt and trousers to the room from which he had taken them, nor did he make any attempt to find the owner, who was quartered in the same hut, and inform him that he had the articles in his possession* Instead, he maintained a complete silence until his room was searched about three weeks after he had taken the trousers, and the clothing found therein* He wore both the shirt and trousers and soiled the latter* Accused testified that as the trousers were too large, they were of no value to him and that he intended to return the articles after he had them cleaned* He made no effort whatsoever to have the trousers cleaned, although cleaning facilities were available on the post and he testified that he had in his possession another pair of pinktrpusers which he could have worn* He did not have the shirt laundered although two *0*D** shirts of his own were available for his use*
i
•Proof that a person was in possession of „	recently stolen property, if not satis- 1
factorily explained, may raise a presump-i	. tion that such person stole it* (Manual
for Courts-Martial 1928, par*112a, p*110j CM ETO 883, Van Horn).
5
This gi^stion as to whether accused intended to deprive the owner permanently of his property was one of fact- for the sole determination of the court and in view of the foregoing substantial evidence the Board of Review will not disturb,its -fiqdingq (United States v.
Wilson, 44 Fed, 593» Tractenberg v. United States, 2y3,?ed, 476).
• * > •
7» The prosecution introduced evidence without objection by the defense that on 1 December when the search of accused's room was made, another pair of pink trousers were found in his room*
The inside.band of these trousers bore the name of another person which was partially obliterated and the name of accused was inserted in lieu thereof (R9-10, 16-17, 25-27), The purpose of such evidence is conjectural. It may have been presented as evidence of the commission of a possible similar offense by accused (MCM., 1928, par, 112b, p,112), or to show that he had another pair of trousers which he would have, worn during the time 'he bad-possession-of the property 7 alleged to have been stolen, . However, because of the presence of other competent and substantial evidence establishing accused's guilt of the offense alleged, it is considered unnecessary to discuss the admissibility of the evidence in question, Its admission did not injuriously affect his substantial rights. :
8,	The charge sheet shows that accused is 23 years of agej that on 8 August 1939 Salinas, Kansas, he enlisted in theNational Guard (U-S^> in which he served until 9 April 1939? that on 10 April I939 at Fort McArthur, California, he.enlisted in the Regular Army and served until 18 September 1942j and that he was commissioned in the Army of the United States 19 September 1942 at Aberdeen, Maryland, He was ' promoted to first lieutenant 1 April 1943 (R41).
9» The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial,' The Board of Review is of,the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and. the sentence, . Dismissal of an officer is authorized upon conviction of a violation of Article of War 93.
iVidge Advocate
-Judge Advocate
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOC5A. 19 FEB 1944 General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army,
Toj Commanding
1. In the case of First Lieutenant KENNETH E, HRIE (0-1549400), Ordnance, attached 1806th Ordnance Company, 97th Service Group, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved* Under the provisions of Article of War 50£ you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence,
1	2,	When	copies of the published order are forwarded to this office
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO I327, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order« (ETO 1327).
Brigad	.	_________________
Assistant Judge Advocate General,
4
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 13, ETO, 26 Feb 19A4)

#(235)
