#(205)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 656.	4	AL»G 1b'43
UNITED STATES ) VIII BOMBER COMMAND.
)
v.	)	Trial by G.C.U., convened at AAF
) Station 111, 3 July 1943. Sentence: Private LYLE C. TAYLOR, JR.,	)	Dishonorable discharge, total
(16048202), 367th Bombardment	)	forfeitures and confinement at hard
Squadron. 306th Bombardment	)	labor for 10 years. United States
Group (H), AAF.	)	Disciplinary Barracks, Fort
) .Leavenworth, Kansas.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSGHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the follov/ing charges and specifications:
CHARGE I j Violation of the 58th Article of Ear.
Specification:	In	that	Pvt. Lyle C. Taylor Jr., 367th
Bomb Sq., 306th Bomb Gp. (H), did at Station 111,
APO 634, on or about 23 Lay 1943 desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Prestwick,
Scotland on or about 6 June 1943.
CHARGE II : Violation of the 69th Article of Ear.
Specification:	In	that	Pvt.	Lyle	C.	Taylor Jr., 367th
Bomb Sq., 306th Bomb Gp. (H) having been placed duly in confinement in the Guard House AAF Station 111 on or about 19 April, 1943, did at AAF Station 111,
APO 634 on or about 28 Lay 1943, escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.
- 1 *•
CONFIDENTIAL
257882
o^v. .-i n i-
CHARGE Ills Violation of the 96th Article of War,
Specification:	In	that	Pvt,	Lyle	C. Taylor Jr., 367th
Bomb Sq., J06th Bomb Gp (H), did at AAF Station 111,
APO'634 on or about 28 Llay 1943, wrongfully take and use without proper authority a certain motor vehicle, to wit; a 1942 four door Ford Sedan government registration number 116524, the.property of the United States of the value of more than fifty dollars,
($50.00).
He pleaded not guilty to 'Charge I and to its Specification, guilty to Charges II and III and to the Specification under each, and was found guilty of all charges and specifications. Evidence of two previous convictions was introduced as follows:	(l)	by special court-martial,
larceny of a bicycle in violation of AW 93; (2) by general court-martial, (a) breaking restriction, (b) wrongfully and unlawfully destroying government property, (c) failing to obey an order of a commissioned officer and (d) wrongfully and unlawfully tailing and using a government vehicle without proper authority, all in violation of AW 96. He v/as sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 10.years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50£-.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution chows that on 19 April 1943 accused was placed in confinement at the guard house at AAF station 111 by order of Captain Richard E. Walck, 367th Bombardment Squadron (A 12).
On 28 Hay 1943 accused was in bed when a check was made by the guard at 11:00 p.m. Between midnight and 12:15 a.m. it was discovered that accused and another prisoner named Cumbie had disappeared (R 8,10). lip one had given him permission to leave the guard house that night (R 11-12). The defense stating that there was no objection thereto an extract copy of . the guard house■morning report, Station 111, AP0 634 was admitted in evidence (R 11; Pros.Ex.I). It contained an entry to the effect that accused escaped on.the date alleged at about 2330 hours..
About 11:30 p.m. 28 hay 1943 Corporal Charles LI. Freeman, detached Service, First Bombardment Wing Headquarters, driver for a Colonel Putman, left a- feur door, six cylinder 1942 Ford in the driveway before the mess hall at Station 111. He gave no one permission to take the car. Freeman left in the shield over the steering wheel a trip ticket which had been issued for the use of the car (R 15-16,18). It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that the "reasonable value" of the car was $400 (R 27).
- 2 -
:l.sU I irte
(207)
J- ' -	:	. -.".L
About midnight 28 Lay 1943, accused appeared at a house at 38 Castle Road, Bedford, England which was about four miles from AAF Station
111.	He asked Iiiss Kathleen Higgins who resided there to tell "Dorothy, the YiAAF" that "we are getting away", that she should "try and forget him". Accused said that he might be back "after the war", that he was ^"getting out of the country" and that he "had the Colonel's car" (R 7,25-26).
On 6 June 194-3 three non-commissioned officers from AAF Station 111 took accused into custody at Orange Field, near Ayr, Scotland (R.19-20,22). Orange Field was about 4-30 miles from AAF Station 111 (R 23) • During the return trip accused was asked by one of the non-commissioned officers "why he didn't make a break". He replied that he was afraid of getting shot, and that if he did get a break he would take a chance (R 22-24-).
Admitted in evidence over objection by the defense was a statement made by accused to the officer investigating the charges, after the former had been warned of his rights (R 13-14; Pros.Ex.il). In substance accused stated therein that during the afternoon of 28 Hay he obtained two shirts and two pair of trousers and put them in an air raid shelter. After his escape from the guard house, he changed his clothes and he and Cumbie took "the Colonel's car" which Freeman the driver had just parked. They then drove to Bedford where he told Hiss Higgins to tell Dorothy Sherwin a YAAF, that he was "shipping for a while" and that he had to have a vacation because "three years was too damn long". lie said that he did not know where he was going or how long he would be gone. Obtaining some gasoline at Canadian and British camps, the two men drove to Harrogate where accused told Hiss Sherwin's mother that he was going to Scotland. They then went to Edinburgh where they had some trouble with the military police because of wrongfully driving on a one-way street. They drove through Glasgow, obtained gasoline at a Canadian camp at Barrowhead and then drove to Irvine where the transmission of the car was damaged because it struck a rock in the road. Accused and his companion remained in the car over night with two girls they had picked up on the way to Irvine. He sought help at a Canadian camp about four miles away. Being unsuccessful he went to Prestwick to another military'’ station -where he told the transportation officer that he had taken an officer to Glasgow, that he had permission to go to the coast and that transmission of the car had been damaged^ when he was on the coast. He displayed Freeman's trip ticket to substantiate his story. While the officer telephoned for parts accused_left the building, took a nearby staff car without authority and returned to Irvine. The two men abandoned the United States Government car and took the girls home to Heilston in the other car. They then drove to Earrowhead, remained over night and returned to Heilston. After accused obtained gas at an li.A.F. camp they drove to Stanroad, secured some mere gasoline from an American truck convoy and made arrangements to accompany the convoy to Ireland.
Then they decided to return to Harrogate. However, after going to Dalmellington they returned to Glasgow. After visiting Loch Lomond they obtained gasoline at a United States naval base and went back to Glasgow.
257:c.?	-3-
CXJFIOBim
'i ClNTmL
'.iThile waiting for a traffic light they were approached by two sergeants who had driven up in a jeep and who were wearing "Engineers" insignia. The light changed and accused drove on, although one of the sergeants shouted for their to wait. After sleeping by the side of the road they picked up two girls and went to Edinburgh. They were chased by a police radio car in Edinburgh but accused, who was driving, managed to get away. T/hen they were subsequently stopped 'in that city by a "bobby" because of driving with bright lights, the two men were finally apprehended by the police who said that the car in which they were driving had been stolen. Accused said the car had been "checked out" to him and displayed the trip ticket. They were arrested, taken by the military police to Prestwick and confined. They were later returned to Station 111 (Pros.Ex.Il).
4.	For the defense, accused as a witness on his own behalf confirmed the facts contained in his statement -made to the investigating officer with the exception of a few minor particulars (R 29). He further testified:
He left camp because he had received on 26 Liay 1943 a court-martial sentence of three years, and wanted to "have a little fun" before serving the sentence. He did not know where he was going or how long he would be away. He planned on turning in after he had been "gone a while" (R 28-29).
He was apprehended in Edinburgh by the civil police and not at Prestwick (R 28,3o). When apprehended they were returning to their'home station to surrender. He planned on stopping again at Harrogate on the way back to inform the girl’s mother of this fact (R 28). He admitted that when being returned to his home station he told one of the non-commissioned officers that he would break away if he got a chance, and further that he had made one effort to escape since his return (R 29;. It was Cumbie who had talked with the dock officer and had told accused of the opportunity of going to Ireland with the truck convoy. Accused decided that instead they would return as they had been away for nearly a week (R 28,30). Cumbie followed accused when the latter left the guard house, and did not know what he was doing as he was drunk at the time, Cumbie was not "part of the idea at all" and accused took him along because "he was making so much racket". Although accused in his statement made to the investigating officer had several times stated that Cumbie was with him, his companion although physically present "didn't know what was going on" (R 29). when he told I«Iiss Higgins that he might see them after the war, he did not mean that he Was leaving the country or the Arny but "merely that I might see them after it was all over because I had planned on turning in after I had been gone a while" (R 28).
5.	It is alleged in the Specification of Charge I that the absence
of accused was terminated by apprehension at Prestwick, Scotland. According to his statement made to the investigating officer and his testimony, accused was apprehended by the civil police at Edinburgh, Scotland and taken from that city by the military police to Prestwick where he was confined.
The evidence x'or the prosecution sho-.vs that three non-commissioned officers
- 4 -
P.iiFIDENTIAL
(209)
uJNUDENTIAL
from accused’s home station went to Orange Field, near Ayr, Scotland (about five miles from Prestwick) and returned accused to AAF Station 111. If there was in fact a variance between the allegation and proof of the place of apprehension, such a variance is not fatal (Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.416(14), p.27l) and is immaterial.
6.	The pleas of guilty and the evidence fully support the findings of guilty of Charge II and its Specification (escape from confinement in violation of Article of War 69), and of Charge III and the Specification thereunder (wrongfully taking and using without proper authority the Government vehicle described).
The evidence clearly supports the findings of guilty of Chfcrge I and its Specification (desertion in violation of Article of War 58). Two days prior to his escape accused had been sentenced to confinement for a period of three years. Tfiien leaving camp he took a Government vehicle without authority. He told Miss Higgins to tell Miss Sherwin that he was "getting away", that she should "try and forget him", that he might be back after the war and that he was "getting out of the country". When the United States vehicle was damaged accused took another vehicle without authority and continued his journey. Although he met an American truck convoy en route he did not surrender to competent military authority, despite his claim that he had decided at that time to return because he had been away nearly a week. He admittedly abandoned his plan to return and instead went back to Glasgow. He was finally apprehended by the civil police in Scotland at a considerable distance from his hone station. To avoid detection and to explain his possession of a Government vehicle he twice used a trip ticket issued for the use of Corporal Freeman. Accused admitted making a statement when being returned to his home station that if he got a chance he would make a break, and further that since his return he had made one effort to escape. The court was fully warranted in its determination that when he escaped, accused did not intend to return.
7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of age and enlisted 9 January 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months, with no prior service. His return to the United States and execution of sentence to dishonorable discharge is authorized (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ET0US4, 4 December 1942).
8,	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. Ho errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. ' The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
9 ^779, '
C cs £ H/
-5
(210)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
7®, Branch Office TJAG., with ET0U8A.	6	AUG 1943 TO: Commanding
General, VIII Bomber Command, APO 634.
1.	In the case of Private HIE C, TAYLOR, JR., (16048202), 367th Bombardment Squadron, 306th Bombardment Group (H), AAF attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of 'Jar 50&' you now have authority to order execution of the sentence,
2,	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETC 656. For convenience of reference pleads .nLace- that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETG 656).
f /	£.	C.	McNEIL,
$&±gadier General, United States army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(211)
