#(177)
Branch'Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater"of Operations
APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 580
UNITED STATES ) SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES
) OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER QF
Second Lieutenant BRYCE A. GORMAN, ) Trial by G.C.M., convened at (0-158^285), (AUS), Quartermaster ) Salisbury, Wiltshire, England,
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications!
CHARGE I* Violation of the 95th Article of War,
Specification: In that 2nd Lieutenant Bryce A. Gorman, General Depot G-50, U.S.Army, was, at Bournemouth, Hants, England, on or about 28 March 1943, in a public place, to-wit: in and near the Norfolk Hotel, Bournemouth, Kants, England, drunk and disorderly while in uniform.
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification 1: In that 2nd Lieutenant Bryce A. Gorman, General Depot G-50, U.S. Army, did at Bournemouth, Hants, England, on or about 28 March 1943, wrongfully and unlawfully solicit 2nd Lieutenant Douglas C, Mitchell, Corps of Military Police, U.S.Army, to commit the crime of sodomy by suggesting an opportunity to feloniously and against the order of nature to have carnal connection with the said 2nd Lieutenant Douglas C. Mitchell, U.S. Army,
v.
) OPERATIONS
Corps.
)	14	June	1943.	Sentence!	Dismissal.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(178)
Specification 2: In that 2nd Lieutenant Bryce A.
Gorman, General Depot G-50, U.S.Army, did at Bournemouth, Hants, England, on or about 28 March 1943, wrongfully and unlawfully solicit Private First Class Percy 0. Purcell, Company L, 115th Infantry, 29th Division, TJ. S. Army, to commit the crime of sodomy by suggesting an opportunity to feloniously and against the order of nature to have carnal connection with the said Private First Class'Percy 0. Purcell.
Specification 3* In that 2nd Lieutenant Bryce "A.
Gorman, General Depot G-50, U.S. Army, did at Bournemouth, Hants, England, on or about 28 March 1943, wrongfully and unlawfully solicit Technician 5th Grade Leslie W. Formby, Company L, 115 Infantry,
29th Division, U. S. Army, to commit the crime of sodomy by suggesting an opportunity to feloniously and against the order of nature to have carnal connection with the said Technician 5th Grade Leslie W. Formby.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of all charges and specifications. Ho evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority. Commanding Officer, Southern Base Section, SOS., ETOUSA., approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, approved only so much of the finding of guilty of Charge I and the Specification thereunder as involves a finding that accused was drunk at the time and place alleged while in uniform, in violation of the 96th Article of War, confirmed the sentence and pursuant to Article of War 50f, withheld the order directing the execution thereof.
3.	According to his own story, accused, on duty at General Depot G-50, was given leave for the weekend beginning 27 March 1943 and went by train'to attend the opening of an American Red Cross^Offleers' Club in the Ambassador Hotel at Bournemouth where he arrived Saturday about 6:00 P.M. He had "drinks" on the way (R.25). He had been drinking Sunday afternoon 28 March 1943 at the Norfolk Hotel apparently until the bar closed in the middle of the afternoon (R.26), with Berkham White, an employee of the Red Cross Club, had met Second Lieutenant Douglas C. Mitchell, Company "B", 707th Military Police Battalion, and had also developed quite a "headache". Just prior to dinner and while he was "rather'hazy" he was invited upstairs to Lieutenant Mitchell's room and after going up to the room he was "quite hazy" (R.25). He awakened in his own room about 5*00 A.M. on Monday morning, remembered his train was to leave about 5*00 or 5*30, got up and "left the room but there was an M.P. soldier there who told me that I could not leave the room and I would have to wait until Lt. Mitchell arrived". He could not recall the later happenings of the afternoon and evening of 28 March 1943 because he was drunk (R.26).
CUrirluENTiAL
(179)
U* The evidence for the prosecution is substantially as follows*
2nd It. Douglas C. Mitchell testified that he was introduced to accused by Berkham White on the evening of 28 March 194-3 and shortly thereafter invited accused with other officers and a lady up to his room for a drink. He soon discovered that accused was nconsiderably under the weather or drunk and displaying rather strange characteristics’1. Accused asked witness if he (accused) could sleep with him and, after being told that there were many vacant rooms in the Club (R.15), persisted in his request "indicating by hi3 actions and statements to me that he had desires for sexual relations of one kind or-another" (R.16). To avoid further meeting with accused witness left the hotel by the rear exit as soon as accused and White had left his room. He later had supper in the Norfolk Hotel grill room and on entering the hotel lounge adjoining about 10*00 o’clock, he was approached by White who said he had had considerable trouble with accused that evening in the Norfolk and that he was then drunk outside (R.15)* He immediately went out in front of the hotel and found accused "very drunk" in the care of two enlisted men. Private First Class Percy Purcell and Corporal Leslie W. Formby, both of Company "L", 115th Infantry. Witness put accused in his jeep in the rear seat with Formby who got out at the Miramar Red Cross Club. On the way there he "very definitely" overheard accused endeavoring to persuade Formby to spend the night and sleep with him. White and. accused were then driven to the American Red Cross Officers* Club where accused was staying and White had to help accused into the hotel (R.16). Accused was definitely drunk; he did not molest witness; it was all talk (R.17).
Purcell and Formby were together having a drink in the Norfolk Bar, a public place (R.14-) at 9*15 P.M. of 28 March when they first saw accused who asked Formby for a cigarette (R.7). Purcell testified that accused told him he "was cute enough to kiss" and asked if he would sleep with accused that night. He also asked witness to get rid of Formby,
A civilian Red Cross worker asked them, to take care of accused while he went for a taxi, and later returned with Lieutenant Mitchell, A.ccus,ed was pretty drunk. He told witness "he would rather sleep with me than a woman" and in his opinion "he was trying to have sexual intercourse with me". Witness who had a date then left (R*7). Formby testified that he heard what accused said to Purcell. After Purcell left, accqsed who was drunk, continued his conversation with this witness making substantially the same statements and request and putting his arm around his waist (R.12). Accused was not boisterous nor was he annoying anyone (R.H).
5.	The only evidence except his own testimony presented by the accused was character testimony of three officer acquaintances who denied he had exhibited-homosexual tendencies towards them, but two of whom admitted that at times he became intoxicated, and that Major Lewis H. Loeser, Medical Corps, specialist in mental and nervous diseases, who had accused under hospital observation for more than a month to determine his sanity and mental condition. Accused was found sane and responsible
- 3 -
C!/» T iJEfi! !Al
a
2o
78
30 Ni liAL
for his actions, not only on 5 May 1943 the date of the hospital report, but also on 28 March 1943* The report of the Board was introduced as Defense Exhibit ’A’. Major Looser testified that the board did not think accused was a homosexual (R,19).
6.	That accused was drunk during the afternoon and night of 28. March 1943 is admitted. That he was in the Norfolk Hotel in Bournemouth, a public place, during at least some of this period of time is undisputed. There is no direct evidence that he was in uniform, but as stated by the Theater Staff Judge Advocate, ETOUSA., the fact that he was an officer of* the* Army of the United States in this theater, and that he was obviously recognized and treated as such by two enlisted men who were strangers to him and who recognized him at the trial, affords a basis for the legitimate inference that he was in uniform (CM ETO 339, Gaget CM 121825, CM 121984, Dig.Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.453(ll), p.342-3).
He was not shown to have been disorderly.
To offer and solicit the opportunity to commit sodomy is an offense under the 96th Article of War (CM 145266, CM 145155^ Dig.Ops, JAG., 1912-1940, sec.454(15), p.349)). The evidence here shows that accused, by words and actions, offered and solicited such opportunity so unmistakedly that all understood his meaning. This was fully and clearly brought out by the testimony of three .witnesses. That accused was drunk or in bad company cannot excuse or condone his conduct,
7.	There were several irregularities in the proceedings, the principal ones having been commented on by the Theater Staff Judge Advocate in his review and none of which are prejudicial to accused.
8.	Accused is 29 years of age and single. He enlisted 8 June 1942 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant, Quartermaster Corps, AUS., on 11 December 1942.
9* 'The court was legally constituted. No,errors materially affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. For the reasons hereinbefore stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support £he findings of guilty of Charge II and the specifications thereunder and so much of the finding of guilty of Charge I and its specification as involves a finding that accused was drunk at the time and place alleged while in uniform, in violation of Article of War 96, as approved by the confirming authority, and is legally sufficient to support the sentence.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
l.
4
(181)
1st. Ind.
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 1 £ J!.l ’943 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA., APO 887, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Second Lieutenant BRICE A. GORMAN (0-1584285) Quartermaster Corps (AUS), General Depot G-50, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings as modified and confirmed and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^-, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office,
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of thejr£$ord in this office is ETO 580. For convenience of reference please >c^^I@St>number in brackets at the end of the order:	(ETO	580),
t
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 14, ETO, 18 Jul 1943)
- 1 -
o-uinmama?

#(183)
