#(337)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 804
- 6 NOV 1943
UNITED STATES	)
v.	)
Privates WILLIAM L. OGLETKEE	)
(34064159), EUGENE (NMI) NUNN	}
(34171030), both of 1945th	)
Quartermaster Truck Company	)
(Avn); and Privates LYNN M.	)
ADAM3 (34151263^ JAI.ES H. WISE	)
(6996370), both of 1949th	)
Quartermaster Truck Company	)
(Avn); all of 1511th Quarter-	)
master Truck Regiment (Av) (Sep). )
VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at USAAF Station #586, APO 633, on 14 August 1943 and at USAAF Station #591, APO 635, on 17-18 August 1943. Sentences: Ogletree. Nunn and Adams - Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for. three years; Wise. Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for two years and six months. United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused in this case were brought to trial upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private William L. Ogletree,
1945th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); Private Eugene (NMI) Nunn, 1945th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); Private Lynn M. Adams, 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); and Private James H. Wise, 1949th Quartermaster Truck C01®any (Avn), acting jointly, and in pursuance of a common intent, did, in conjunction with Private William Crossland, 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company, (Avn), and certain other soldiers whose names are unknown, at Bamber Bridge, Lancashire,
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(333)
CONFIDENTIAL
England, on or about 24 June 194-3* with intent to do them bodily harm, commit an assault upon Corporal Roy A. Windsor, Private First Class Carson W. Bozman, Private First Class Ralph F. Ridgeway, and Private Spurlock Mullins, all of the 234-th Military Police Company, by menacing them with dangerous thingsj to wit, bottles, rocks and bricks, and by striking the said Private First Class Bozman on the head and wrist and other parts of his body, and the said Private First Class Ridgeway on the head and other parts of his body, with dangerous things, to wit, bottles, rocks and bricks.
CHARGE II:	Violation	of	the	89th	Article	of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	William L, Ogletree,
194-5th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); Private .Eugene (NMl) Nunn, 194-5th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); Private Lynn M. Adams, 194-9th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); and Private Jamies H. Wise, 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn), being in garrison at AAF Station 569, did, at Bamber Bridge, Lancashire, England, on or about 24- June 194-3, commit a riot, in that they, together with Private William Crossland, 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn), and certain other soldiers whose names are unknown, did wrongfully, unlawfully and riotously and in a violent and tumultuous manner, assemble to disturb the peace of said town of Bamber Bridge, and having so assembled, did, unlawfully and riotously assault Corporal Roy A. Windsor,
Private First Class Carson W. Bozman, Private First Class Ralph F. Ridgeway and Private Spurlock Mullins, all of the 234-th Military Police Company, by menacing them with, and throwing at them, bottles, rocks and bricks, to the terror and disturbance of said town of Bamber Bridge.
CHARGE III: Violation of 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private William L. Ogletree,
194-5th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); Private Eugene (NMl) Nunn, 194-5th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); Private Lynn M. Adams, 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn); and Private James H. Wise, 194.9th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn), acting jointly, and in pursuance of a common intent, did, in conjunction with Private William Crossland, 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn), and certain other soldiers whose
- 2 —
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(339)
names axe unknown, at Bamber Bridge, Lancashire,
England, on or about 24 June 1943# wrongfully and unlawfully resist by force and violence the lawful arrest of Privates William L. Ogletree and Eugene Nunn by Corporal Roy A. Windsor,
Private First Class Carson W. Bozman, Private First Class Ralph F. Ridgeway, and Private Spurlock Mullins, all of the 234th Military Police Company, military police in the execution of their duty.
Each accused pleaded not guilty to, and each was found guilty of, all charges and specifications. Each was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor,- Ogletree, Nunn and Adams for three years, and Wise for two years and six months. The reviewing authority approved each sentence, designated the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas as the place of confinement for each accused and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50§»
3.	On 24 June 1943, the 1945th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn) and 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn) of the 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Av) (Sep) were stationed at Adams Hall Camp, AAF Station #569 at Bamber Bridge, Lancashire, England. Accused, Ogletree and Nunn were members of the first mentioned company, and accused, Adams and Wise were members of the second mentioned company (R25,26).
The principal street of the town of Bamber Bridge, is Station Road which has a compass direction of approximately north and south. At the southern limits of the town -the street divides, forming a nIw. The east branch is in the direction of Chorleyj the west fork is the highway to Wigan. On the east side of Station Road opposite the nYw was the Hob Inn, a public house. Approximately 1050 feet north of Hob Inn, Station Road is intersected at right angles by McKenzie Street, which leads eastwards approximately 125 feet to the McKenzie Arms, likewise a public house. The first street north of McKenzie Street is Edward Street. The distance between McKenzie Street and Edward Street is about 210 feet. Both sides of Station Road between McKenzie Street and Edward Street are occupied by closely built private dwelling houses. Mounsey Street extends eastward from Station Road approximately 250 feet north of Edward Street and leads to Adams Hall Camp. The American Military Police Station was located on the east side of Station Road near the intersection thereof with Sergeant Street 500 feet north of Mounsey Street (Pros.Ex.l; R.101,111,118).
4.	On the evening of 24 June 1943, Corporal Roy A, Windsor, 234th Military Police Company and Pfc. Ralph F. Ridgeway, of the same organization went on patrol duty at 6*30 p.m. in Bamber Bridge. Each was dressed in Class A uniform; each wore Military Police brassards and each was armed with regular military police equipments shoulder straps, garrison belt.
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(340)
CONFIDENTIAL
•45 automatic revolver, night stick and lanyard. The patrol orders were to arrest any soldier who did not hold a pass or who wan disorderly or who was dressed other than in a Class A uniform (R99,110,112).
Windsor and Ridgeway performed their patrol duties in a "jeep". Ridgeway was the driver. During the evening they passed the Hob Urn on several occasions. On one of the trips in the direction of Hob Inn, they encountered three American officers who informed them that there was a disturbance at the Inn and that there were soldiers thereabout in field jackets (R99,105). Immediately, they drove to the Inp and stopped to investigate. It was soon after 10*00 p.a. Two colored soldiers, dressed in field jackets, were outside and about eight or ten other 'colored soldiers were standing about drinking beer from bottles, Windsor approached accused Ogletree who was one of the soldiers clad in a field jacket, and asked him what he was doing out of uniform and inquired for his pass (R46,47). Ridgeway went into the public house and encountered accused Nunn who wore a field jacket and whom he asked to come outside (R26,46,110). During Windsor's conversation with Ogletree other soldiers gathered about them, and there was some commotion. Hearing a noise in the public house, Windsor entered and it appeared to him that Ridgeway was in difficulties with Nunn and other colored soldiers. Windsor called to Ridgeway, "Let's go" or "Come outside". Ridgeway complied. As the two policemen started towards the "jeep", two or three soldiers carrying beer bottleB came towards them. One of these soldiers, in particular, was aggressive and moved towards Windsor who ordered him to stop, informed him he was under arrest and directed that he "come along". The order was ignored and again it was given and simultaneously Windsor pulled his gun. Staff Sergeant William Byrd, '1949th Quartermaster Company, grabbed the soldier by the arm and spoke to him and then said to Windsor:	"I	wouldn't shoot if I were you.
If you are going to do anything to control do it with your stick" (R26,36, 46,47,111,112). Other soldiers around there declared that Windsor "was not arresting nobody, or taking anybody away from there" (RIOl). Windsor sind Ridgeway then entered the "jeep" and as they were about to drive away, a beer bottle was thrown so that it passed over Windsor's left shoulder and hit the wind-shield of the "jeep" and broke. Particles of the bottle and some of the beer splattered’ over the two military policemen (R47,100,lll). Windsor and Ridgeway then drove north on Station Road towards the' military police station. At about 10:30 p.m. they encountered near the station. Private first class Carson W’. Bozman and Private Spurlock Mullins, both of 234th Military Police Company, who were on duty as a "walking patrol".
Both Bozman and Mullins were dressed and armed the same as Windsor and Ridgeway (R118). Windsor directed Bozman and Mullins to accompany him and Ridgeway. The four policemen then drove south on the east (left) side of Station Road. There were four or five colored soldiers walking north on the east side walk. When opposite them Windsor's attention was attracted to a soldier who was walking in the street waving a beer bottle. Two soldiers dressed in field jackets were also in the street. (R48,101,105, 111,119,125). The "jeep" with its passengers continued on south to a point opposite Hob Inn, where an American captain and a lieutenant were
CONFIDENTIAL
(341)
encountered. Windsor explained the situation to them and sought their help or advice (R102,108,111,119,126)•	He was informed by the Captain
that he must go ahead and do his best. Thereupon, the "jeep" was turned around and was driven north on Station Hoad on the west side thereof passing "McKenzie Arms”. Colored^soldiers were encountered at a point north of McKenzie Street. The four accused and three other soldiers, Byrd, Jackson and Crossland, were in'the group (R51,52). Nunn and Ogletree wore field jackets. Adams and.Wise were dressed in Class A uniforms (R31,34, 47). Two or three were on the side-walk but there was one near the middle of the street waving a beer bottle, and gesturing in a threatening manner as if intending to-stop the "jeep". This soldier was the accused, Adams (R69,7$,80,102,104,119,126,129).
When the car reached a point north of the McKenzie.Arms and between McKenzie and Edward streets, Windsor halted it. The four military police dismounted at about 10t35 p.m. (R62). Windsor walked towards Adams and stopped within two or three paces of him a little to the right of the "jeep" which was then standing on the left or west side of the road facing north towards Preston. It was close to the curb (R49,66,69,102,103,112, 126). As the police left the car a number, perhaps 15, colored soldiers appeared (R106,117,122). Windsor, Ridgeway, Bozman and Mullins were recognized as military policemen (R36,37). The soldiers called them "names" and dared them to make an arrest (R105). Adams made a motion to throw the bottle. Windsor told him to put the bottle down and that he was under arrest. Adams replied that Windsor was not arresting anybody. The crowd commenced to press around Windsor who'backed towards Bozman.
Bozman, on dismounting from the "jeep" walked towards the center of the street and faced a group of three or four colored soldiers. One among them was in a field jacket. Bozman told him he was under arrest and took hold of his arm. Other soldiers said to Bozman that, he was not arresting anyone. One soldier took Bozman by the arm and tried to pull him into the group, and broke his hold on the soldier in the field jacket. Bozman pulled loose and again grasped the jacket-clad soldier by the arm (R119,120). The soldiers tried to surround Windsoy now near to Bozman, and Bozman, who to shield themselves, backed against the "jeep". A bottle was throvm and Bozman was struck on his forehead. Blood flowed into his eyes. He backed into another colored soldier who, standing in the rear of the "jeep", locked his arms around him. The soldier tried to take his gun. Bozman called to Windsor for help and Windsor responding to the call, hit the soldier on the head with his night stick. He fell, remaining on the ground about ten seconds (R62,70,72,75,88,103,104,119,120).	Yfhile
Bozman was wiping blood from his eyes a stone was thrown which struck him on the wrist. He turned and saw another soldier in the rear of the .jeep about to throw a stone. Bozman ordered him to halt. He: did not. Qn the second command to halt and disobedience of same by the soldier, Bozman drew his gun and shot at him. There was further disturbance in the street, and as he turned to see the cause of it he saw accused Adams, carrying a xxx beer bottle, and another soldier approaching from across the street.
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(342)
CONFIDENTIAL
Bozman ordered them to halt but they refused to obey and Bozman shot in their direction when they were four or five feet distant (R53,104,108,120-123). Adams dropped to the ground. This ended the fighting for. Bozman. Two officers arrived and stated they could handle the situation (R12l). Four stitches were required to suture the wound in Bozman’3 forehead. He also sustained a broken nose, was confined in the hospital, for five days .
Windsor, after hitting Bozman*s assailant with his night stick, backed across the side-walk as several, rocks were thrown at him. He stood against a wall with his gun drawn. He asked a lady the whereabouts of a telephone and learned that one was across the street. At this moment the crowd seemed to scatter and Windsor crossed the street and telephoned Charge of Quarters for help (R103,104).
Ridgeway,- upon leaving the "jeep” commenced to cross to the opposite side of. the street. About mid-way he met the accused Nunn in a field jacket. Ridgeway informed Nunn he was under arrest. In reply Nunn struck at him but Ridgeway parried his blow. There were exclamations by some of the soldiers to the effect that there would be no arrests, hy Military Police that night. Two other colored soldiers approached Ridgeway and he backed towards the automobile (R49,52,79,112,113,114) •	When he
reached the "jeep” he was struck on the forehead by a thrown bottle or rock. He then turned around, faced the "jeep" and reached for his gun. Standing beside the ’’jeep" facing Ridgeway was accused, Adams, with a rock in his hand. Ridgeway passed around the rear of the jeep" on to the side-walk.
He had his back turned towards Adams -and .was struck in the back of the head with a rock and rendered unconscious. When he regained consciousness a civilian helped him to his feet and he departed with the other military police. Ridgeway suffered cuts about his forehead and back of his head and a broken jaw (R63,71,81,113,114,115,127,128,130).
Mullins rode in the left -rear seat of the "jeep" and was the last of the policemen to dismount therefrom. • He walked to the front of the car. There he saw Adams (R126,129) holding a beer bottle. As Mullins called to him, he walked in the direction of the crowd in the center of the-street. Another-soldier approached Mullins as he stood at the front end of the "jeep". Mullins' ordered him to stop. The soldier advanced within three steps of Mullins, who pulled his gun and backed across the side-walk against a wall. Another_soldier behind him yelled: "Shoot, shoot, you yellow coward". A third soldier approached carrying rocks.,
A rock was thrown at Mullins striking the wall at his back. One of the soldiers was threatening to throw another rock. Mullins told.him he would shoot him if-he threw it. Mullins then saw Ridgeway turning around to face the side-walk. Ridgeway was to Mullins’ right as the latter faced the street. At this instance-Ridgeway was struck in the back of the head with a rock and fell. The-colored soldier who threw the rock came up to-Ridgeway and kneeling down pushed him partly from the side-walk curb and attempted to secure Ridgeway’s gun which was in its holster.
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(343)
Ridgeway lay on his right side facing the ’’jeep” with his gun covered, Mullins fired at the .soldier who was. bending over Ridgeway with his back to Mullins. The soldier fell to the ground close ta Ridgeway (R33,72,86, 93*127,130). Mullins identified the soldier he shot as one of the accused sitting in the court room nthe second one from the left" (R13l). S/S William Byrd declared that it was Adams who was shot under the circumstances described (R34). Pendery (R23) and Byrd (R2$) also identified Adams as sitting second wfrom the left". . Another shot was fired simultaneously with the one discharged by Mullins. After the shooting, the fighting stopped, although the colored soldiers continued to shout and curse.	Mullins en-
tered the "jeep" and left with the other military police soon afterwards (R131).
Ogletree had been an active participant in the melee. He was seen carrying a rock and was engaged in the fighting (R30,32). At one stage of the disturbance, Adams, Ogletree and Byrd started from the center of the street in the direction of a military policeman who was on the west side of the street near the "jeep". As Ogletree approached with Adams he was shot by one of the policemen (R34,f\5,57).
. " Ogletree was treated for his injuries at 2215 hours on 25 June 1943 at the dispensary of the 1511th Q.M. Truck Regt. (Avn). He was suffering from a gun-shot wound. The bullet entered Ogletree’s body at a point in the center of the lower third of his back and made its exit in the front (R58). Adams yras also examined at the dispensary at the same approximate time and date. He had been wounded by a .45 caliber bullet entering his, neck at. the rear portion of the left side of his neck and exiting just behind his shoulder blade. Both Ogletree and Arinm.q were hospitalized.
Nunn’s examination followed that of Ogletree and Adams. He exhibited bruises about his ribs (R58-62),
The area of conflict definitely appears to have been on the west side of Station Road between McKenzie and Edward streets at a point about 30. yards north of the intersection of McKenzie Street and Station Road or approximately mid-block (R62,64,75,8D). The breach of .the peace was. characterized by personal combat between the policemen and the colored soldiers, the throwing of rocks and beer bottles by the soldiers, shouting and use of viplent language and finally the use of fire-arms by the policemen (R62-64,71,72,82). The disorder Occurred in a closely built-up section of Bamber Bridge (Pros.Ex.lj R62,75,80,82). Trespasses were committed by the colored soldiers, upon adjacent private property (R80,88, 90), and rocks struck the front door and window frame of a residence (R75, 96). The turmoil disturbed the peace and quiet, of the neighborhood and the house-holders were frightened and excited (R64,76,82,84.88,96). The soldiers had been drinking and some of them were drunk (R84).
5* No evidence pertaining to the, disorder and accuseds' participation therein was presented by the defense. There was therefore no conflict between the prosecution’s evidence and that of the defense. However, the record of trial reveals conflicts in certain aspects of the testimony of
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
prosecution’s own witnesses, some of whom were obviously biased in favor of accused* In a situation wherein a number of actors are involved in a swiftly moving episode such variations in evidence must be expected. They are resultant upon the inability of certain witnesses td observe accurately or to remember correctly what they saw or heard. , It was an exclusive function of the court, as a fact finding body, to resolve such conflicts and determine the ultimate facts. The Board of Review, sitting as an appellate judicial tribunal must .accept the facts ns found and can neither weigh the evidence nqr reconcile conflicts in it nqr judge the credibility of witnesses. If there is competent substantial-evidence"to support the findings of the court the Board of Review will accept them as final (CM 192609, Rehearing (1930), CM 161833 (1924), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-40, sec. 408(2), p.259j CM 223336 (1942) Bui.JAG., Aug 1942, Vol.I, No.3, par.422, p.159} CM ETO 82, McKenzie; CM ETO 106, Orbon: CM ET0 132, Kelly and Hyde: CM ETO 422. Green).
The foregoing narrative of events and statement of facts are supported by competent substantial evidence. The same will be hereinafter supplemented in the discussion of the issues presented for consideration.
6.	At the proper stage of the trial, and before the court was sworn, the defense challenged Colonel Neal Creighton, the president of the court for cause (R5). It was asserted by the defense and admitted by the prosecution that Colonel Creighton was the commanding officer of Camp Griffiss and that he bad been in command thereof during a period of three weeks when accused had been confined at said camp arid .were under investigation (R6). Colonel Creighton was sworn as a witness and was examined and cross-examined at length (R6-9). The court, excluding the challenged member, deliberated in closed session and when court was re-opened the then senior in rank (Colonel Baker) announced that the challenge had not been sustained (R9). Thereafter, the defense in the exercise of its peremptory challenge excused Colonel Creighton (R13). In the civil courts the following rule by weight of authority is applied where a challenge to a juror for cause is inproperly over-ruled*
"*■** such an error will not be regarded as -	material	if the objecting party did not
challenge the juror peremptorily and his <-peremptory challenges were not exhausted, „ or if the record fails affirmatively to show that such challenges were exhausted,. it being held that a party must use all available means to exclude all objectionable jurors, and that a failure to do so constitutes a waiver of his objection."
(35 C.J., sec.413, p.372).
No good reason exists why the same rule should not be adopted in courts-martial procedure. The grounds of challenge of a prospective member of a court for cause ('.CM,, 1928, par.58e, p.45) are substantially the same as
- 8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(345)
similar grounds of challenge of jurors for cause in the civil courts (35 C.J., par*427, p.382).
The defense in the instant case by exercising its peremptory challenge, preserved for examination and consideration upon appellate re- t-view the question as to whether the court committed error in refusing to sustain defenses’ challenge for cause directed at Colonel Creighton.
Colonel Creighton was not the accuser nor a witness for the prosecution. He was not therefore disqualified by the interdiction of the Eighth Article of War. His examination -shows that he entertained no preconceived ideas on the case; had formed no opinions as to the guilt or innocence of accused, and he declared he could decide the case fairly and impartially cm the evidence.
Xt is true that it is not considered good policy to place a commanding officer of an accused on a court which tries him. However, this is no valid ground for challenge.
' ”##*. It is quite clear, however, that the-mere fact that a member is the commanding officer - colonel, captain, eto.- of the accused is no foundation for a valid challenge.” (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents,
Reprint, p.223)*
While Colonel Creighton was temporarily commanding officer of the accused in his capacity as camp commander, the incidents of- such command and his relationship to the accused were not the usual incidents and relationship of a commander to his men. The accused had been brought to Camp Griffiss for investigation and -confinement - a mere temporary arrangement. It is not believed that the policy above indicated applies under suoh situation.
The challenge must therefore stand or fall on the question as to whether Colonel Creighton was biased against accused personally or whether he had formed a definite opinion as to their guilt or innocence. The record clearly fails to establish any such disqualifying attitude on the part of the challenged officer. "The test is, whether, looking to the record as a whole,it appears that the substantial rights of accused have been injuriously affected". (CM 232229 (1943), Bul.TJAG.,May 1943, Vol.II,
Ho.5, par.362, p.182-). There was no prejudicial error in the-ruling of the court denying the challenge dire cted ~ at^olonelrCreightdn^	~
7.	The defense also challenged for -cause Lieutenant Colonel Robert G. Patterson, the law member of the court. The basis of the challenge was that Lieutenant Colonel Patterson was not a member of The Judge Advocate General's Department and that there was available to the appointing authority for appointment as law member of the court officers of such department (R9)• The court upon the challenge proceeded to hear evidence on the.question of the availability to the appointing authority of officers of The Judge Advocate General's Department. At the conclusion thereof the court in
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
closed session, in the absence of the challenged member, refused to sustain* the challenge (R13).
The law member of a court is subject to challenge for cause, but not peremptorily (HCM., 1928, par*53d, p.4-5; AW 18). The Eighth Article of Wax in pertinent part directs:
"***. -The authority appointing a general court-martial shall detail as one of the* members thereof a law member, who shall be an officer of the Judge Advocate General's Department, except that when an officer of that department is not available for the purpose the appointing authority shall detail instead an officer of some other branch of the service selected by the appointing authority as specially qualified to perform the duties of law member.
**Hf-*M.
The question as to whether an officer of The Judge Advocate General* s Department was available to the Commanding General, VIII Air Force Service Command, for designation as law member of the court which tried accused was a matter for his exclusive determination. The provision of AW 8 quoted supra is not a mandatory direction to the convening authority, but vests in him discretion in the determination of the availability of a judge advocate. His designation of Lieutenant Colonel Patterson as law member was a decision by him that a judge advocate was not available. It was conclusive and was not subject to review by the court on a challenge for cause and cannot be re-examined by the Board of Review (CM 209988 (1938), Dig.Ops,JAG., 1912-194-0, par.365(9)i p.176). The ruling of the court denying the challenge was correct, but evidence on the question, of availability should not have been received. No issue of fact was involvedj only a question of law was presented. The challenge was inherently devoid of legal merit.
8.	Immediately prior <to the commencement of examination of witnesses the trial judge advocate aslqed the court to request witnesses in the case to retire from the court room, t Defense counsel asserted that none of the defense witnesses were in the court room. Thereupon, the trial judge advocate asked that the four accused be separated from other colored soldiers sitting in the court room and be required to be seated near their counsel (R17). The trial judge advocate in support of his request asserted that colored soldiers in the court room were spectators attending the trial and should be seated accordingly and that the accused were intermingled among these colored soldier-spectators for the purpose of confusing the witnesses as to their identity (R17). Defense counsel in opposition declared:
"This matter is primarily one of identification and it is the position of the defense that when witnesses have to identify the accused, the accused have a right to have persons of their own color sitting with them so that we can be sure the witnesses are
- 10 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
making proper identification. ♦*** they are not spectators. They are here for th& purpose of identification and it is the provision of the Manual that the accused sit near the counsel for the benefit of the counsel, so that he may discuss the case with accused.
Tfyey are certainly near enough to discuss the matter. In addition, the Manual says the counsel for the defense is entitled to clerks and orderlies to assist him in the trial of the* case and we still submit we. are entitled to have these other soldiers along with us in the defense of .this case. I refer to page 37 of the M3M, paragraph 48” (R17).
The law member granted the motion of the trial judge advocate and there was no objection to the ruling by any member of the court (H17). The following 'colloquy then occurred:
"Defense:	Do	T	understand the court’s ruling
•that they are to sit back7 Law Member:	They,can sit back in the first
row there" (R17,18),
The record of trial then recites:	"The other soldiers were seated in the
first row at the side of the four accused" (R18).
While the record of trial does not clearly indicate the final seating arrangement, it implies that the accused .were separated from the other colored soldiers* The latter however, were allowed to remain in the court room and were seated on the first row of seats at the side of the four accused.
General courts-martial trials in the European.Theater of Operations involving offenses against the peace and quiet of a civil community or against persons who are not members of the command of ETOOSA, will be in open court, except -when security provisions forbid. Local officials and others directly concerned will be encouraged to attend (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 Sept. 1942, par,3c). The above order is silent both as to right of accused to demand the presence in the court room of military personnel who are not witnesses and as to the right of military personnel not witnesses to attend a.trial.	In the absence of contrary orders by proper
authority the rule is that "subject to the directions of the appointing authority, a court-martial.is authorized.either to exclude the spectators altogether or limit their number. In the absence of good reason, however (e.g. where testimony as to obscene matter is expected), courts-martial will sit with doors open to.the public" (LEM.,.1928, par.49e> p.3^}. In the instant case, spectators were not excluded and there was no attempt to limit or circumscribe the attendance or presence of colored soldiers. The order of the court pertained solely to seating of the accused and spectators in the court room. This was a matter peculiarly within the power and discretion of the court. It was its duty to’control and regulate in the
CONFIDENTIAL
(3-48)
CONFIDENTIAL
court room the conduct of the personnel of the court, the accused and the spectators (LCM., 1928, par.54-, p.42j 64-C.J., sec,62, p.65, foot-note 29). Its action in that regard is not.subject to review in absence of conduct violative of law or which is so arbitrary as to prejudice the rights of aocused (5 C*J.S., sec.1603, P.-499). The action of the court in this instance was reasonable and proper and did not prejudice accused. There was no error.
9.	Certain rulings of the court pertaining to admission and exclusion of evidence deserve consideration*
(a)	"Pros.Ex.1" - Map of a section of Bamber.Bridge - was admitted in evidence (Rl8) without authenticating evidence as to its accuracy or proof that it delineates correctly the locus of the fighting on 24. June 194-3, in conformity with approved practice (LCM., 1928, par.118b, p.122). However, defense counsel affirmatively disclaimed any objection and under such circumstances there was no prejudicial error (CM ETO 506, Bryson).
(b)	Captain Paul T. Milnamow, M.C., over objection of defense, testified that when he treated accused, Ogletree, for injuries at 2215 hours on 25 June 194-3, Ogletree stated he had received the injuries fighting with "some M«P.s in Preston". Similar admissions were made severally and separately by accused, Adams and Nunn (R59). The acceptance in evidence of these statements was restricted as being against only the accused making same. The statements were admissions against interest and were admissible without proof of their voluntary nature. Their effect was properly confined to the accused making same (MOM., 1928, par,114b and c, pp.116-117). The objections were properly overruled.
(c)	Mrs. Frances Baldwin, prosecution s witness, was asked* "What effect did this disturbance have on the people"of Bamber Bridge?". Defense objected to the question, but before ruling was made on the objection, the trial judge advocate asked the witness* "Who, if any one, among your neighbors were terrorized by this incident?" No objection was offered to the second question. The witnessed not respond to the firs.t question, but answered the second question and two supplemental questions having identical purpose by naming her family and two next door neighbors (R76). Both questions were bad in form. The first was too broad - there was no proof that "the people of the town" were present or knew anything about the incident. It would have been proper to ask the witness if there were , civilian residents present observing the disturbance. If she gave an affirmative answer she could have then been asked if she observed their re-actions and emotions and what they were (20 Am.Jur.,Evidence, sec.823, p.692). The second question was objectionable because it was leading. There had been no evidence that anyone was terrorized. These irregularities, however, are not vital and could not have materially prejudiced accused’s rights. The first question was unanswered. Defense did not object to the second question and its supplementals. The value of the
- 12 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL	(3W)
evidence elicited was small j it could have had but minimum influence on the court. These are irregularities which should be disregarded under AW 37, However, the practice is not condoned,
(d)	Police Sergeant Laurence Constable, prosecution’s witness, was asked: ’’What was the condition of Bamber Bridge that night with respect to the feelings of the people there, that you know of your own knowledge?”
He replied: ”Just at that time of night the place was in an uproar about the incident and everyone was very excited and the women folk very frightened ***.’’ (R96). Immediately prior to the propounding of this question the witness had been testifying as to what he had observed at the scene of the fight. It is therefore reasonable to .conclude that in spite of the fact the question was sufficiently broad to include all of the people of Bamber Bridge the court understood clearly that his answer was confined to those whom he observed at the locus in quo, and on this basis his answer was unobjectionable (20 Am. Jur.,Evidence, sec,823, p.692; Underhill’s Criminal Evidence - 4-th Ed, - sec.231, p,A32).
(e)	During the subsequent investigation of the disorder occurring in .Bamber Bridge on the night of 24- June 194-3 statements were obtained from each of the accused. Each statement was reduced to type-written form qnd was signed by each accused. The prosecution submitted evidence as to the circumstances under which each statement was obtained. Staff Sergeant Porter L, Askew, of The Provost Marshal General's Department testified as to the facts surrounding the obtaining of Nunn's statement (R20-22,132-135). Nunn also testified as to the circumstances of his giving his statement (B135.136). Any conflict with Askew's testimony relative to the taking of the statement was resolved against Nunn by th^ action of the court in admitting his statement. Sergeant Roger A. Pendery, Investigations Department, Provost Marshal General's Department, gave like testimony as to obtaining separate statements from Adams and Yfise (R23*24-, 138-142). Second Lieutenant Charles Jesson, Investigations Division, Provost Marshal General's Detachment, testified as to the conditions under which Ogletree's statement was obtained (R142,143) • The original statements signed by each of the accused were presented to the witnesses for identification and the respective signatures of accused were proved (R20,134-,139,141,14-3) • With approval of the law member, copies of the original statements, from.which the names
of all accused except the person making the statement were deleted, were admitted in evidence.and read to the court. The same are part of the record of trial (Nunn's statement: Pros.Ex.2, R138; Adams' statement: Pros, Ex,3, R14-0j Wise's statement: Pros.Ex,4-, R14J-»142j Ogletree's statement:
Pros,Ex,5, RH3).
The court,.trial judge advocate and defense counsel proceeded on the assumption that these statements were confessions of guilt. On this premise the proof is clear that each statement was the voluntary act and deed of each accusedj that each accused was given proper warning as to his rightsj that no promises of leniency were made nor threats or compulsion used to obtain the same. As confessions they were obviously free from taints of compulsion or promises of leniency (CM ETO 4-38, Smith: CM ETO 559*
- 13 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(350)
CONFIDENTIAL
Monsalve). The corpus delicti had been clearly proved prior to their admission (CM 206090, Koehler; CM 202213, fellon). The fact that the statements were not written by the accused does not deny them admission (CM ET0 438, Smith).
However, after carefully scrutinizing these statements the Board of.Review is convinced that they c9nn9t.be classed as confessions. In CM ET0 292, Mickles the distinction between admissions and tonfessions was considered at length. In the light of the authorities therein cited the Board of Review is of the opinion that the statements insofar as they are inculpatory of each accused are in legal effect admissions. Neither of them contain any acknowledgment of guilt. They were,. therefore, admissible in evidence without preliminary proof of their voluntary nature (ivCM., 1928, par.114b, p.116-117). .The precautionary action of the trial judge advocate in deleting the names of co-accused from each statement before reading same to the court is approved.. Such practice obviated the evil of Accumulating a "matrix of hearsay evidence" against accused other than, the one making the statement which was condemned by the Board of Review in CM ET0 134»
Stump et al.
10.	At the conclusion of the prosecution’s case in chief, the defense made separate motions as follows:
a.	- On behalf of all accused for finding of not guilty of Charge I and
Specification.
b.	- On behalf of all accused for finding of not guilty of Charge II end
Specification.
c.	- On behalf of all accused for finding of not guilty of Charge III and
Specification.
d.	- On behalf of accused, Wise, only for a finding of not guilty of Charges
I, II and HI ,&nd their respective specifications.
The motions were denied by the court after deliberation in closed sfession (R147). There was no error in such ruling in respect to the accused Ogletree, Adams and Nunn. The prosecution had established its case against them for the reasons hereinafter set forth. The motion should have been granted as to accused, Wise. (See paragraph 11, infra). ' Upon the denial of the motions each accused, having had his rights explained to him elected to remain silent and no evidence was offered in their behalf (R148).
11.	The relationship and connection of the accused, Wise, to and with the incidents and events occurring at the locus in quo in the town of Bamber Bridge on the night of 24,June 1943 require a separate treatment of his case. He is charged with three distinct offenses alleged to have been committed by him jointly and in pursuance of a. common intent with the other three accused:
(a) With intent to do bodily harm he* did commit an assault upon the four military policemen by.menacing them with dangerous things and by striking Bozman and Ridgeway with such things j (b) He did commit riot by
GONFIdInI
NTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(351)
wrongfully, unlawfully and riotously assembling to disturb the peace and having assembled did assault the four military policemen by menacing them with and throwing at them dangerous things to the terror and disturbance of the town; (c) Wrongfully and unlawfully he did resist by force and violence the lawful arrest by the four military policemen of accused Ogletree and Nunn.
A summary of the evidence applicable to Wise's activities shows as
follows:
S/S William Byrd:	Wise	was present on the street immediately
exterior to the Hob Inn when Windsor and. Ridgeway first attempted to make arrests and was in the group of soldiers- who proceeded north on Station Road (R26,27). He was present at the situs of the fight between McKenzie and Edward streets with the1 four military policemen, but left directly after the fight started (R36). He was seen with no weapons in his hands nor was he seen to strike any of the military police (R32;.
Pvt. Albert F. Jackson:	Wise	was at Hob Inn and was standing out-
side when Windsor and Ridgeway departed (R48). Wise was in the group which proceeded north on Station Road and was present when the four military . policemen returned, but was not seen by Jackson any more that evening (R49). Wise was not present later when bricks were thrown (R53).
Captain Paul T. Milnamow.- M.C:	Ogletree,	Adams	and	Nunn were
treated by the medical officer for injuries on 25 June 194-3.. No mention of Wise' is made in his testimony, and he could not identify Wise in the courtroom (R58).
Corporal Roy A. Windsor:	Wise	was	present	when	the	"jeep" contain-
ing the four military policemen stopped and the policemen dismounted (R104,
106) but Windsor did not know if he had'a weapon or object in his hands (R105). Wise was "just in the crowd" '(H108).
The statement, of accused. Wise (Pros.Ex.4) should be considered in connection with the foregoing evidence. The declarations, therein that bear any degree of inculpatory interpretation are as follows:	Wise	was at Hob Inn
at the time Windsor and Ridgeway appeared. He was in the inn when Ridgeway went into, it and addressed a soldier wearing a field jacket (i.e. Nunn),
Wise then left the "pub" and was present on the outside of it when Windsor pulled his gun. When Windsor and Ridgeway left in the "jeep", '.Vise and an A.T.S. girl walked,north on Station road accompanied by other soldiers and A.T.S. members. He saw the "jeep1^ containing the four policemen pass on its way south and then return and stop opposite the crowd of colored soldiers of which.he was one,. Hp was, present when one of the policemen attempted to take into custody a colored soldier,, and saw. three polipemen leave the "jeep" and walk towards the center of the street. He further saw one of the policemen hit in the forehead, and the police pull their guns. He heard one shot and saw a soldier fall, and heard a second shot and saw another soldier fall. He then left and started back to camp*
- 15 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(3520
(a)	The offense alleged in Charge I and its specification, to-wit: assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous thing, requires proof of specific intent (MCM., 1928, par.1492}, p.l^Oj 5 C.J., sec.216, p.739j
6	C.J.S., sec.79b(g), p.937). There is no evidence that Wise, himself, either assaulted or actually struck any one of the three military policemen. Likewise there is a total absence-of evidence proving that Wise was a party to any preconcert, understanding, mutual plan or design with his co-defendants having the purpose of assaulting or;injuring the policemen or preventing them from performing their auties. Wise’s knowledge of the intent of Ogletree, Adams and Nunn is not shown and the intent of his co-defendants cannot be imputed to him (CM 20004-7 (1933), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, sec.451 (13), p.314-)). Wise’s mere presence at the scene of the crimes is not sufficient to establish his guilt (CM .221019, (1942), Bui.JAG., Jan-June 1942, sec.454(l4a), p.23). it therefore results-that the record of trial is legally insufficient to show that- Wise entertained the specific intent necessary to sustain the charge against him.
(b)	With respect to the offenses alleged in Charge II and its specification (assembling in a riotous and tumultuous manner to disturb the peace) and Charge III and its specification (resisting the lawful arrest by the military police of Ogletree and Nunn) the evidence is wholly lacking that Wise in any respect participated in or aided and abetted in either the disorder or in resisting of the arrest of Ogletree and Nunn. Likewise there is not even an inference of preconcerted action or mutual understanding on his part. The repeated utterances by the colored soldiers to the effect that the military police would make no arrests on that night is not connected with Wise other than as an auditor. There is not a suggestion that he endorsed or approved such sentiments and there is no evidence ho uttered such remarks. By his own statement Wise goes no further than admitting his
CONFIDENTIAL
(353)
party to the crime. He may be indicted for his neglect in not assisting the officers of the law in arresting the offenders. But he is not indictable as concerned in the offense ‘which the offender in question commits. Hence, although a man be present while a felony is committed, yet if he take no part in it, and do not.act in concert with those who commit it, he will not be a principal in the second degree merely because he does not endeavor to prevent the felony or apprehend the felon. Something must be shown in the conduct of the by-stander which indicates a design to encourage, incite, or in some manner afford aid or consent to the particular act; though when the by-stander *** knows that his presence will be regarded by the perpetrator as an encouragement and protection, presence alone may be regarded as an encouragement. ********t it is not necessary, therefore, to prove that the party actually aided in the commission of the offense; if he watched for his companions in order to prevent surprise, or remains at a convenient distance in order to favor their escape, if necessary, or was in such a situation as to be able readily to come to their assistance, the knowledge of which was calculated to give additional confidence to his companions, in contemplation of law he was aiding and abetting. Mere co-operation without an understanding may not make a conspiracy." (l Wharton's Criminal Law, 12th Ed., sec.24-6, pp.329-334)•
"The mere, fact that one present at the scene of a crime may be in sympathy with the person committing the same or may approve of his act will not render the former an aider or abettor. So, also, the mere fact that one present may negatively consent to the commission of the felony will not render him a principal in the second degree, and instructions using the word 'consent' have frequently been held erroneous." (22 C.J.S., sec.88b(3), p.160).
"In the absence of preconcert, or at least of intent to aid and knowledge thereof on the part of the actual perpetrator of a crime, the mere presence of a person at the time and place of a crime does not make him an aider
- 17 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
and abettor or principal in the second degree or principal under applicable statute, where he does not aid or abet, although he makes no effort to prevent the crime, and this is so **»'* even though he may mentally approve of it, and he benefited by it, unless he is tulder legal duty to prevent it. On the other hand, where one’s presence is by preconcert, he may be guilty as an alder and abettor, although neither by word nor by act does he encourage or discourage the commission of the felony.
****«. (22 C.J.S., sec.88b(4), pp.160,161).
it*-*** the mere presence of one at the scene of the crime. **** does not make one an accomplice.
Mere knowledge or belief that a crime is to be committed or has been"committed and the concealment of“such’knowledge does not render a witness an accomplice unless he aided or participated in the commission of the crime. This is the general rule and is sustained by the majority of the cases. *x**". (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, 4th Ed., par.150, pp.227-228), (See also CM 200047, supraj CM 221019, supra).
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty with respect to accused, Wise, as to any and all of the charges and specifications.
12.	Substantial evidence is contained in the record of trial definitely identifying and implicating each of the accused Ogletree, Adams and Nunn with (a) the assault on all of the military policemen and the battery upon Bozman and Ridgeway, (b) the riotous and unlawful assembly of the soldiers and the included assault upon the policemen, and (c) the resistance of the arrest of Nunn and Ogletree. In addition’there are the admissions made by each accused Ogletree, Adams and Nunn as follows:
(a)	The statements made by each of them on 25 July 1943 to Captain Milnamow that each had been fighting with the military police;
(b)	The signed statements of each accused obtained during the pre-trial investigations. These latter statements summarize in pertinent part as follows:
Nunn (Pros.Ex.2): The military policeman who had spoken \o him at the Hob Inn approached him and said: "You are the one I am looking for, let's go". Nunn refused. The policeman commenced striking him with a club. The three other policemen^approached and Crossland, Jackson and other colored soldiers came to Nunn's assistance. The fight commenced,
Nunn saw a policemen who had been injured with blood on his forehead and face, heard two gun shots and saw two soldiers fall. He saw a policeman
- 18 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(355)
by the "jeep” - the same one who had shot the two soldiers. Nunn thought- he was going to shoot them again. .He ran to him and tried to take his gun.	The policeman hit him with his club, pushed him away and
shot at him.	Then Npnn kept knocking the gun up to keep it from being
fired at other soldiers.
Adams (Pros.Ex.3): stated he walked up Station Road from Hob Inn with a bottle of beer in his hands. A "jeep" stopped and three military policemen got out. Adams heard a shot fired and then a second shot and he felt a burning in his back and he knew he was shot. He then threw his beer bottle at one of the policemen but it did not hit him.
After throwing the bottle he •grabbed' another pol-ioeman and tried to take his gun. Byrd grabbed Adams and tried to pull him away from the military policemen.
Ogletree (Pros.Ex.5): admitted he was one of the crowd of soldiers who walked ncrth on Station Road after leaving Hob Inn. When the "jeep" stopped a policeman came over to him and tried to hit him with a stick. The policeman and Ogletree "tusseled". Another policeman tried to hit him with his stick. The first mentioned policeman hit Ogletree with his stick on the right side of his head, and drew his gun. Ogletree "started at him". Somebody on Ogletree’s left shot him. It was not the policeman he had been fighting with. He fell to the ground.
The legal principles involved in determining the responsibility of Ogletree, Adams and Nunn are found in the following statements:
"All persons who are actually or constructively present at the time and place of a crime, whether it is a felony or merely a misdemeanor, and who either actually aid, abet, assist, or advise its commission, or are there with that purpose in mind, to the knowledge of the party actually committing the crime, are guilty as principals in the second degree, although they did not themselves accomplish the purpose."
(16 C.J., sec.117, p.130; 22 C.J.S., sec.88a, p.157).
"bo, among offenders, the Articles recognize no principals, and no accessories either before or after the fact, as such. The grades of crimes and of participators in crime, familiar to the common law, are unknown 'to the law military, and the embarrassing technicalities which have grown out of the division of crimes into principal and accessorial are wholly foreign to the procedure of courtB-martial. In the military practice all accused persons are treated as independent offenders. Even though
- 19 -
pnwnncKiTiAi
CONFIDENTIAL
they may be jointly charged and tried, as*for participation in a mutiny for example, and each may be guilty of a distinct measure of criminality calling for a distinct punishment, yet all are principals in law." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.108).
"But where two or more persons acting with a common intent jointly engage in the same undertaking and jointly commit an unlawful act, each is chargeable with liability and responsibility for- the acts of all the others*, and each is guilty of the offense committed, to which he has contributed to the same extent as if he were the sole offender. And the common purpose need not be to commit the particular crime which is committed; if two persons join in a purpose to commit a crime, each of them, if actually or constructively present, is not only guilty as a principal, if the other commits that particular crime, but he is also guilty of any other crime committed by the other in pursuance of the common purpose, or as a natural or probable consequence thereof. In order to show a community of unlawful purpose it is not necessary to show an express* agreement or an understanding between the parties. Nor is it necessary that the conspiracy or common purpose shall be shown by positive evidence; its existence may be inferred from all the circumstances accompanying the doing of the act, and from conduct of defendant subsequent to the criminal act; in other words, preconcert or a community of purpose may be shown by circumstances as well as by direot evidence."
(1,6 C.J., sec,115, p.128; 22 C.J.S., sec.87£, p.155).
(a) The evidence -shows without contradiction that a group of colored soldiers, some of whom are unidentified, engaged in a breach of the peace on a public street in Bomber Bridge having for its purpose the prevention of arrest of Ogletree and Nunn. Ogletree, Adams and Nunn were members of that group, and were active participants in the rioting and disorder. In this respect their conduct differs from that of accused, Wise, whose activities stopped short of active participation and thereby placed him in the role of a by-stander or non-belligerent spectator. The actions and deeds of Ogletree, Adams and Nunn definitely fix upon them the responsibility of actors.
- 20 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(357)
The evidence is conclusive that each of three accused committed one or more acts of violence upon the persons of the four policemen, although a degree of uncertainty does exist as to exact identity of the perpetrator of a particular act. In determining the legal responsibility of the three accused, uncertainty in the evidence in that respect is immaterial, and unimportant in the face at* the uncontradicted fact that they as members of an 'mlawful assemblage, committed acts of violence directed at the policemen. There was substantial evidence from which to infer that each of the three accused possessed the specific intent to do bodily harm to the policemen. (6 C.J.S., sec.79b(2), p.938). Under the Articles of War all participants are principals. An abundance of competent evidence established the complicity of Ogletree, Adams and Nunn in the assault upon Bozman and Ridgeway wherein rocks and beer bottles were thrown with resultant injury to two of the policemen. .Whether it was the three accused who actually committed the batteries is unimportant; they were active members of a riotous mob, some members of which did inflict the injuries upon Bozman and Ridgeway. The record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of each and all of the three accused Ogletree, Adams and Nunn of Charge I and. its Specification.
(b) With respect to the charge (Charge II) unaer the 89th Article of War (unlawful and riotous assemblage to disturb the peace) the evidence is substantial and convincing that the three accused were members of an •unlawful assemblage of colored soldiers and that .they themselves, as well as their confederates, committed acts of violence upon and towards the policemen while the latter were in the performance of their lawful duties. That such disorder on a public thoroughfare of an English town in a residential district thereof occurring in late evening disturbed the peace and quiet of the community and annoyed and frightened the neighboring house-holders is also shown by uncontradicted evidence. Ogletree, Adams and Nunn played principal and active parts in such disorder and turbulence. The common law offense of riot which, has been defined and elucidated as follows:
"Riot is essentially an offense against the public peace and good order, and looks to this rather than an infraction of the personal rights of any particular individual as such.. It involves the execution of an agreement, express or implied between three or more persons to commit an assault or battery or a breach of the peace. ****n (54- C.J., sec.3, p.830).
"A riot is a tumultuous disturbance of the peace by three or more persons assembled together of their own authority, with the intent mutually to assist one another against anyone who shall oppose them in the execution of some enterprise of a private nature, and who afterwards actually execute the same in
- 21 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(358)
CONFIDENTIAL
a violent and turbulent manner, to the terror of the people, whether the act intended was of itself lawful or unlawful (MoClain Crim.Law)"
(fiCM., 1928, par. 147c, p.l62).
"The common-law mile requires that three or more persons must act together in committing the offense, and most of the statutes defining riot provide that the offense cannot be committed by less than three persons; ***x" (54- C.J., sec.5> p.83l).
"It is not necessary that the riotous violence should have been premeditated by.the assembled perpetrators; therefore the original assembly may have been by accident or for a lawful purpose. ***" (54 C.J., sec.6, p.832).
"All concerned in an unlawful assembly are equally guilty of the subsequent acts done by any of them in furtherance of the common object of the assembly, and all who are present at the commission of any riotous act and actively engage* therein by act, sign or word are principal rioters ***" (54 C.J., sec.15, p.834)*
It was urged by the defense that the specification under Charge II failed to state an offense under AW 89 on the ground that the riot or depredation denounced thereby must have been committed by troops when they were "in quarters, garrison, camp or. on the march" and that riotou* conduct on a public street is not within the condemnation of the statute (R145)• The Eighty-Ninth Article of War in pertinent part reads as follows:
"All persons subject to military law are to behave .themselves orderly in quarters, garrison, camp and on the march; and any person subject to military law who commits any waste or spoil, or willfully destroys any property whatsoever (unless by order of his commanding officer), or commits any kind of depredation or riot, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct. ****" (Underscoring supplied).
The history of the eighty-ninth article of war is revealed by the statement of Brigadier General Enoch E. Crowder, Judge Advocate of the Army, before the sub-committee on Military Affairs of the United States Senate on 7 February 1916. General Crowder in pertinent part stated:
- 22 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(359)
"We now come to Article 89, 'Good order to be maintained and wrongs redressed*. Articles 54 and 55-(Code of 1874), which it is designed to replace by this new article, are perhaps the most archaic provisions of our code. The existing provisions of our statute law were taken from the British articles, and date in c ur law from 1775. Their purpose is to protect civilians from disorderly and riotous acts on the part of the military. *XK*. What the new article provides is fairly summarized as follows:
Article 89 is a consolidation of the punitive parts of existing articles 54 and 55. It omits certain language of the existing articles archaic in character and not descriptive of modern conditions. ****. The word 'depredation* has been inserted with a view to making the article cover all injuries to property. *****
The proposed article is made applicable to all persons subject to military law, as the offense here denounced is quite as likely to be committed by retainers to the camp and persons accompanying or serving with the armies in the field as by officers and soldiers." (Calendar No. 122, Senate. Report No. 130, 64 Cong. 1st Sess., pp.82,83)•
There is a singular absence of decisions and opinions involving the eighty-ninth article of war. It therefore becomes necessary to construe and determine the meaning of the statute in the light of its history (United States v. Raynor, 302 U.S. 540. 82 L. Ed., 413; United States v. Morrow, 266 U.S. 531, 69 L. Ed., 425; and the application of established rules of statutory construction. Legislative intention must be primarily discovered from the language of the statute itself (United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U.S. 95, 42 L. Ed., 394).
The first clause of the first sentence of the article - "all persons subject to military law are to behave themselves orderly in quarters, garrison, camp and on the march" - is simply declaratory of a general mode of conduct. It does not denounce any particular act of commissioner omission and prescribes-no penalty. The second clause of the sentence is the pertinent penal provision. It denounces separate acts of misconduct - "any person subject to military law who (a) commits any waste or spoil, or (b) willfully destroys any property whatsoever, or (c) commits anv kind of depredation or riot shall be punished as a court-martial may direct".
It is manifest that the second clause of the first sentence when considered separate and apart from the remainder of the article denounces offenses of the nature described regardless of the situs of their commission.
- 23 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
The question therefore presented is whether the first clause of the first sentence, which simply declares the general mode of conduct of military personnel in "quarters, garrison, camp and on the march", is to be taken as limiting the general denouncement in the second clause in such' manner as to require the offenses there described to be committed in "quarters, garrison, camp and on the march'1 before they will be subject to the penal provisions of the article. If such is the correct construction of the article then obviously the offense alleged (Charge II and its Specification) against Ogletree, Adams and Nunn - "commit a riot" - has been laid Tinder the wrong article of war inasmuch as the riotous disorder occurred, upbn and in a public street.
The direct'antecedent of the first clause of the first sentence of Article 89 is the first clause of Article 55 of the 1874 code which provided;
"All officers and soldiers are to behave themselves orderly in quarters and on the march;"
The eighty-ninth article is broadened by substituting "persons subject to military law" for "officers and soldiers" and adding "garrison" and "camp" to the designation of places. However, the legal effect of the two clauses is identical; they prescribe a mode of conduct but do not denounce offenses or prescribe penalties.
The second clause of Article 55> Code of 1874 reads:
it*** and whoever commits any waste or spoil, either in walks or trees, parks, warrens, fish-ponds, houses, gardens, grain-fields; inclosures, or meadows, or maliciously destroys any property whatsoever,belonging to inhabitants of the United States •**** shall, beside such penalties as he may be liable to by law, be punished as a court-martial may direct,"
The above quoted clause inspired the second clause of the first sentence of AN 89 which directs;
"*** and any person subject to military law who commits any waste or spoil or willfully destroys any property whatsoever ****, or commits any kind of depredation or riot, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct." (Underscoring supplied).
The phrase "or commits any kind of deprecation or riot", was not contained in AN 55. It was taken from AN 54> Code of 1874 which provided:
- 24 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(3«i)
"Every officer commanding in quarters, garrison, or on the march', shall keep good order, and, to the utmost of his power, redress all abuses or disorders which may be committed by any officer or soldier under his command; and if upon complaint made to h i of officers or soldiers beating or oL .erwise ill-treating any person, disturbing fairs or markets, or committing any kind of riot, to the disquieting of the citizens of the United States, he refuses or omits to see justice done to the offender, and reparation made to the party injured, so far as part of the offender's pay shall go toward such reparation, he shall be dismissed from the service, or otherwise punished, as a court-martial may direct." (Underscoring supplied).
With respect to the relevant phrase "committing any kind of riot" contained in A',7 5A> Winthrop comments: "The expression 'any kind of riot' employed in the Article, may be regarded as of more general import than the technical legal term riot" (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.658, footnote).
The second clause of AW 55 denounced two specific offenses: (a) waste or spoil of real property, and damage to or destruction of animals and things kept thereon, and (b) malicious destruction of any kind of property "belonging to the inhabitants of the United States".
In drafting the present eighty-ninth article, Congress used the old fifty-fifth article as the foundation. It broadened the first or declaratory clause thereof by making it applicable to all persons subject to military law and included "garrisons" and "camps". ' Retaining the substance of the second clause of AY/ 55, - the denouncement of two specific offenses - Congress rephrased it, added a third offense - commission of depredation and riot (taken from AW 54.) and made it the second clause of the first sentence of AW89.
The second or denouncement clause of AW 55 obviously prescribed offenses other than and in addition to those arising from disorderly conduct of officers and soldiers "in quarters and on the march". They included waste or spoilage of real property and things kept thereon by military persons whether they were "occupying the premises for the purposes of a camp or bivouac, marching through or near the same, or operating or being quartered in their neighborhood" (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.66l) and malicious destruction of any property belonging to inhabitants of the United States wherever located (Ibid., p.66l).
The modus operandi of AY/ 55 was retained ir AW 89. The declaratory clause (clause one) of the former remains in broadened scope the
- 25 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
declaratory clause (clause one of first sentence) of the‘latter. The denunciatory clause-of AW 55 (clause two) rephrased and modernized is the denunciatory clause (clause two of first sentence) of AW 89, and to the latter has been, added the offense formerly denounced in AliI 54 - "riot" and also the offense of "depredation".
The foregoing comparative analysis clearly reveals the Congressional intention with respect to AW 89. Beyond any doubt Congress never intended that the declaratory clause (first clause of first sentence) should in any respect modify or influence the denunciatory clause (second clause of first sentence). The scope of the denunciatory clause of AW 55 (clause two) embraced offenses not committed "in quart'ers" or "on the march"; likewise the denunciatory clause (clause two of first sentence) of AW 89 includes offenses not committed "in quarters, garrison, camp and on the march".
The. legislative history of the eighty-ninth article emphatically denies the contention of defense counsel. The "riot"‘ condemned by the article may be committed at places other than "quarters, garrison, camp and on the march". Charge II and its Specification was laid*under the proper article.
The evidence is clear the three accused Ogletree, Adams and'Nunn participated actively in a "riot" as defined at common law. Three or more persons were engaged. It is therefore unnecessary to determine whether the phrase "any kind of depredation or riot" is of more general impobt than the common law designation of "riot". Such point is specifically reserved.
(c) There can be no question as. to the legiality of the mission of the four military policemen at the time and place of the incidents giving rise to the charges against Ogletree, Adams and Nunn. The patrol order to the policemen required them to arrest ahy soldier who did not hold a pass or who was disorderly or who was dressed other than in a Class A uniform (R38,99,110,U2). Ogletree and Nunn wore field jackets (R26,31,46,47,110) and such dress constituted a violation of orders and rendered them subject to arrest. The military police were properly identified as such (R99,110, 112) and the three accused knew they were policemen (R36,37). The policemen in endeavoring to arrest Ogletree and Nunn were performing their duty. Likewise it was the duty of Ogletree and Nunn peacefully to permit their restraint and upon demand of the policemen to accompany them. The policemen were entitled to use such force as was reasonably necessary to secure and detain the offenders, overcome their resistance, prevent their escape, recapture them if they escaped and protect themselves from bodily harm, Tifithin reasonable limits the amount of force permissible to effect an arrest and the means employed are necessarily left to the sound discretion of the officer and this discretion is not subject'to review by a court unless wantonly or maliciously abused (6 C.J.S., sec.13(a), p.612). The evidence clearly indicates that Ogletree and Nunn violently resisted lawful arrest after having been fully informed both as to the nature of their offense and
- 26 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(363)
the identity of the military policemen. Adams was a vicious and active confederate of Ogletree and Nunn in the latter's efforts to avoid being taken into custody by -the military policemen. He was one of the principal leaders of the attack upon the policemen. By his own admission he threw a bottle at one of the policemen and grabbed another and tried to take his gun. As a general rule any person who interferes with or obstructs an officer in the performance of his duties is guilty of the offense alleged in Charge III and its Specification (4.6 C.J., sec.21, p.876). The evidence is substantial and convincing that Ogletree, Adams and Nunn were guilty of such offensej in fact the court could not have done otherwise than reach the conclusion that it did.
13.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused Ogletree, Adams and Nunn were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings that accused Ogletree, Adams and Nunn, were guilty of each and all of the offenses with which they were charged and to support their respective sentences, but legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of the accused, Wise, and the sentence imposed upon him.
14.	Accused Ogletree, is of the age of 20 years five months and was inducted into service at Fort Benning, Georgia, on 13 September 1941j accused Adams, is of the age of 20 years seven months and was inducted into service at Camp Livingston, Louisiana, on 18 September 1941> accused Nunn, is of the age of 23 years'll months and was inducted into service at Fort Bragg, North Carolina,' on 20 September 1941. The approved sentence of each of said accused included confinement at hard .labor for three years in the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Accuseds' return to the United States and execution of sentence to dishonorable discharge is authorized (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942). Confinement in a disciplinary barracks is also authorized. Pursuant to War Department Circular No. 210, 14- September 1943 the place of confinement of general prisoners convicted by a general court-martial and subject to confinement in disciplinary barracks who are returned to eastern ports of the United States from overseas stations shall be Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York, The place of confinement of accused should therefore be designated accord-
ingly.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
- 27 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
TO: Commanding > Army.
1.	In the case of Privates WILLIAM L. OGLETREE (34064159), EUGENE (NMI) NUNN (34171030), both of 1945th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn)j and Privates LINN M. ADAMS (34151263),' JAMES H. WISE (6996370), both of 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn), all of 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Av) (Sep), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence in respect to accused Ogletree, Nunn and Adams and legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence in respect to accused, Wise, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50g- you now have authority to order execution of the sentence as to accused Ogletree, Nunn and Adams. Although the holding of the Board of Review and my concurrence therein serves to vacate the sentence as to accused Wise, such sentence should be formally vacated in the published order.
2,	Pursuant to 'War Department Circular No. 210, 14 September 1943 the place of confinement of general prisoners convicted by a general court-martial and subject to confinement in disciplinary barracks who are returned to eastern ports of the United States from overseas stations shall be Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman,
New York. The place of confinement.of accused should therefore be designated accordingly.
3* When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record In this office is ETO 804. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 804).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(364)
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. ^OV 1943 General, VIII Air Force Service Command, APO 633, U.S.
- 1 -
nnNFinFNTiAi
#(365)
