#(331)
CONFIDENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW. ETO 800.
2 9 SEP 1943
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private STEWART UNGARD	)
(16051438), Company E, 112th	)
Engineer Battalion.	.	)
)
)
CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at London, England, 10 September 194-3*
Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement for ten years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHGEEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation of the 58th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Stewart Ungard,
Company E, 112th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA, did, at Divisers, Wiltshire, England, on or about 25 May 1943, desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at London, England, on or about 7 August 194-3 •
CHARGE II:	Violation of the 9oth Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Stewart Ungard,
Company E, 112th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA, a prisoner lawfully placed under arrest in Leslie Street, London, England, on or about 7 August 1943, did, at London, England, on or about 7 August 1943, attempt to escape from such said arrest.
- 1 ~
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE III:	Violation	of the 93rd Article of ’.'far.
(Finding of not guilty).
Specification:	(Finding of not guilty).
He pleaded not guilty to Charge I and the Specification thereunder but guilty of a violation of the 6lst Article of War, and guilty of Charges II and III and to their specifications. He was found guilty of Charges I and II and of the specifications thereunder and not guilty of Charge III and of its Specification, Evidence of two previous convictions, one by summary and one by special courts-martial for two periods of absence without leave totaling 35 days in violation of Article of War 61 was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonarahfcr discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for ten years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50g-.
3* The -undisputed evidence for the prosecution with respect to the offenses of which accused was found guilty was as follows:
A certified extract copy of the morning report of Company E,
112th Engineers (C) (Corps) submitted at "ETOIBA" was admitted in evidence and contained the following entry:
”27 May 194-3*- * * Pvt Ungard duty to AWOL as of 2359 hrs 25 May 19.43. * * CFC".
(R4; Pros.Ex.l).
At about 10:55 hours 7 August 194-3 Private Joseph C. Senger, Jr., 32nd Military Police Company, was on duty in the vicinity of Lisle and Wardour Streets, London and wore his brassard. He noticed accused in a dirty, impressed uniform and asked for his pass. Accused produced a pass which did not entitle him to be in London as it was good only for his own station area. V.rhen told that the pass was "no good", he produced a driver's license but the name thereon was not his own. He did not possess -his "AGO" card or identification tags. Senger informed accused that he was under arrest, whereupon he gave his correct name. The military policeman took him by the arm to the corner of Lisle and Wardour Streets, dropped his arm and attempted to signal an approaching United States Government vehicle. At this moment accused ran down the street. He was pursued by Senger who caught him about four blocks away and took him to the detention barracks (R5-7).
A sworn statement by accused, made to Staff Sergeant William C, Yerg, Investigation Division, Provost Marshal General’s Office, was introduced in evidence (R7-8j Pros.Ex.3).	In substance accused stated
therein that he was 24- years of age, married but separated from his wife.
He enlisted 19 December 19-41 and arrived in the European Theater of
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
'ONFIOFMnAL
(333)
Operations 6 March 194-3. About the middle of thy he went absent without leave with another soldier and went to London where he kept himself supplied with money by begging it from other soldiers. He then began to steal money from soldiers who were staying at various Red Cross clubs. On 7 August 1943 he was taken into custody by the military police and while being questioned ran away but was recaptured a few minutes later. He said "I knew I was in a mess and did not want to be taken into custody” (Pros.Ex.3).
4.	It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that accused was in the military service of the United States and that his organization was at "Divisors”, "Wiltshire, England (R5).
5.	For the defense accused testified that when he went absent he intended to return to his organization. ’.Then arrested by the military police he ran away because he had not slept the night before and was not able to think clearly. While absent he lived in London and did not work. During the four weeks just prior to his arrest, he lived with a prostitute and existed on her earnings (R9-10)•
6.	The prosecution introduced in evidence a morning report submitted at "ET0U5A” wherein accused's organization is described as Company E, 112th Engineers, (C) (Corps). His organization is set forth in the specifications as Company E, 112th Engineer Battalion, and it is alleged that the initial absence of accused occurred at "Divisers”. Wiltshire, England. It was stipulated that accused's organization was situated at "Divisors”. However, no objection to the introduction in evidence of the morning report was offered by the defense. Accused's unit was in fact situated within the area in which the morning report was submitted, namely, the European Theater of Operations and the inclusion of his correct name and serial number in the morning report sufficiently identifies him with the entry contained therein, despite the variation between the document and the specification with reference to the designation of his organization. An examination of a map of England discloses that the name of the place from which accused absented himself is spelled "Devizes” instead of "Divisers” as alleged. Also, from the evidence of record it appears that accused was placed in arrest on Lisle Street, London, instead of Leslie Street as alleged. These irregularities did not affect the substantial rights of accused.
The plea of accused to the Specification of Charge I was not in the usual form of exceptions and substitutions but consisted of a plea of not guilty but guilty of a violation of Article of bar 61. Although irregular in form it is clear that accused intended to plead guilty to absence without leave for the period alleged, terminated in the manner alleged in the specification. After a detailed explanation by the president of the court to accused as to the effect of the meaning of his plea, defense counsel stated that accused "adheres to the original plea *•**".
7.	The evidence fully supports the findings of guilty of Charge II and its Specification (attempt to escape from arrest in violation of Article
- 3 -
iONFin-^OAL
CCNc,r)ENTIAL
of War 96). With reference to Charge I and Specification (desertion in violation of Article of War 58) it was also clearly established by the undisputed evidence that accused absented himself without leave at the time and place alleged and remained absent until he was apprehended on 7 August 194-3 at London, England. During a prolonged absence of about 74. days accused lived by borrowing or stealing money, and for about four weeks lived with a prostitute and existed on her earnings. When apprehended he displayed a pass good only for his own station area and also a driver’s license bearing another name. He did not reveal his true identity until he was placed under arrest. He attempted to escape from arrest because he knew he was in trouble and did not want to be taken into custody. Although he was constantly in the vicinity of military organizations for several weeks he did not surrender to military control. The court was ful1y warranted in finding that accused had the specific intent not to return to the military service of the United States (CM ETO 656, Taylor: CM ETO 74-0, Lane).
8. The charge sheet shows that accused is 24- years of age and that he enlisted 19 December 1941 for the duration of the war plus six months. He had no prior service.
9.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. Ho errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
10; Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4- December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion in time of war (Article,of Y/ar 42j par.5d, sec.II, AR 600-375, 17 May'1943J par.90, LEM., 1928). As accused is under 31 years of age with a sentence of not more than 10 years the designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio is correct (Yiar Department letter AG 253 (2-6-41)
E, 26 February 1941)	/
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
- A -
CCNFI1ENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(335)
1st Ind.
29 SEP 1943
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.
General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO #887*
TOi Commanding
1.	In the case of Private STEWART UNGARD (16051438), Company E,112th Engineer Battalion, APO #305 attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. You now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2,	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 800, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 800).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General,

#(337)
