#(211)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871*
Board of Review. ETO 678.
UNITED STATES
V.	)
)
Private PHILIP J. DiNUOSCIO	)
(35009880), Headquarters	)
Company, 2nd Battalion, 11th	)
Infantry.	)
5TH INFANTHI DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Camp Nikel, Iceland, 26 July 1943. Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement for 15 years.
Penitentiary.
HOIKING by the BOARD QF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE: Violation of the 93d Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Philip J. DiNuoscio,
Headquarters Company, 2d Battalion, 11th Infantry, did, at Keflavik, Iceland, on or about 16 July 1943, with intent to commit a felony, viz, rape, commit an assault and battery upon Valgerdur Baldvinsdottir, by willfully and feloniously striking and beating her on and about the head with a dangerous instrument, to wit, an iron rod, and attempting to have sexual intercourse with her forcibly and against her will.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specific- ' ation. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for fifteen years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50
- 1 -
mi
G78
£40x88
3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows that Valgerdur Baldvlnsdottir, Keflavik, Iceland was 22 years of age and a clerk in a store owned by Olafur E. Einarsson In that town (R 5,14*18). On the evening of 16 July 1943 accused, who had made purchases at the store on two previous occasions, bought several articles the cost of which amounted to 759 kronur. He told Einarsson that he did not have the money at that time, and would call for the packages the following day. Eirarsson told him that the store would close at one o'clock on Saturday (17 July) and that he (Einarsson) was going to Reykjavik at about 9s00 p*m. that evening (16 July). Accused then decided to return for the packages at 10:00 p.m. Einarsson pointed out Miss Baldvlnsdottir and said that she would deliver the articles as she would then be "tidying up the store"
(R 18,20-21).
•	The store was closed at 8:00 p.m. and Einarsson left an hour
later. At 10:00 p.m. accused returned (R 5-6). At his request Miss Baldvlnsdottir wrapped up in paper an iron bar which he had in his pocket (R 8). He then asked Mis3 Baldvlnsdottir to lend him a telephone directory. When she entered the office to get it accused put out the lights, followed her into the room and closed the door (R 7,9)* He seized a belt which was around her jacket and unfastened the buttons saying "You are a nice girl". The girl pushed him away, buttoned up her jacket, touched a telephone in the room and asked him if he wanted her to call the police. Although she believed that his actions in turning out the lights and closing the door were unusual and thought she knew what his intentions were, she did not call the police. She meant it as a threat as she did not then think "he would do anything like he did" (R 9, 13-16). Accused then saw a case of envelopes and asked the girl to get it for him (R 7,10,13,16). When she put the case on the table he put his left arm over her head, put his hand over her mouth and nose and threw her on the floor (R 7). While they were struggling on the floor accused beat her. He asked her three times "whether I did or did not want to give in" (R 8,16-17). The girl screamed when she could, but he covered her mouth with his hand most of the time (R 14). When asked what accused used to beat her with she testified "I believe it was his fist, but I am not certain of it because the blows grew more and more painful later on" (R 8), "I never did see what he hit me with because he kept me close up to his body, but I suspect it was an iron because the blows were very painful"
(R 17). Finally, Miss Baldvlnsdottir wrqatled away from him, ran out to the street and told two men what had happened, informing them that accused
-was still in the store (R 8). She had a few cuts on her head and a bruise on her hand. At the time of the trial the girl was "just recently out of bed" and had been under a doctor's care because of the attack. She had not been able to resume her work (R 15). She had not previously known accused whom she identified as her assailant (R 14).
About 2210 hours 16 July 1943 as Sigurthor and Gudmundur Gudfinnsson, both of Keflavik were walking by the store, a girl staggered across the floor of the store and ran into the street. She was "bloody all over" (R 26-29). Jona Gunnarsdottir of Keflavik, who was in a
(213)
At
building near the store just after 10:00 p.m. "heard a sound as if something was broken", and saw a soldier who jumped out of the window of the store office and ran across a field# She told some people who were in front of the store (R 32-33). Gudmundur Gudfinnsson and some men saw a soldier running across the fields. They chased the man, caught him and brought him back to the store. The soldier was accused. His right hand appeared to be blood-stained (R 30-32). As the result of a report. Corporal Ruby E. Seymour, 812th Military Police Company went to the store about 10:30 p.m. Accused, who was surrounded by Icelanders, admitted to Seymour he caused the disturbance and asked him to get his coat and cap from the store, Seymour went to the rear of the store, saw a broken window and. on the window-sill an iron bar which he believed to be a stove poker (R 34-36).
Lieutenant Colonel Paul C. Febiger, Provost Marshal of the Keflavik sector found on the floor of the store office a girl's coat lapel pin, a soldier's cap, and a service ribbon wet with blood. A soldier's raincoat was on the desk (R 38,45). The last four numbers of accused’s serial number were in the raincoat, and accused claimed the cap (R 46).
The service ribbon was admitted in evidence (R 38,45-46; Ex.D).
The coat lapel pin was identified as hers by Miss Baldvinsdottir and was also admitted in evidence (R 10-11,45-46; Ex.B). The iron bar found on the window-sill by Seymour was identified by the girl as the one which she had wrapped in paper for accused (R 10), and it was admitted in evidence (R 10,38-39,45-46 j Ex»A).
About 2345 hours 16 July, Miss Baldvinsdottir was brought to the hospital at Camp Cashman which was in the immediate vicinity of Keflavik,
She was suffering from a mild degree of hysteria, showed evidence of shock, had four lacerations in her scalp and a contusion on her right hand (R 24). About 0100 hours, 17 July accused was brought to the hospital and given a blood test which disclosed that he had five-tenths of a milligram of alcohol per one c.c of blood. This represented a very small quantity of alcohol, which was not sufficient to cause drunkenness in any degree (R 22-23; Ex.C). His general appearance was rational (R 26). According to a common medical text book (Cecil), after a^single injection of alcohol the blood level would remain approximately at a constant level for about five hours. However, this factor would vary with an Individual's capacity to oxidize and to tolerate alcohol (R 25).
After being warned of his rights ty Lieutenant Colonel Febiger, accused made two statements. The first was signed about 3'00 a.m. 17 July (R 40-42). The second statement was signed during the afternoon of 17 July after he was reminded of the warning as to his rights which he had previously received (R 43-44)* Lieutenant Colonel Febiger testified that the only changes made in the second statement were the spelling of accused's name and the insertion at the end of the statement of part of the warning as to his rights which had been given accused but which the clerk had omitted when writing the statement. Accused was advised of the changes
- 3 -
G78
£40*88
;. £.'!Ti Al
and given the opportunity to compare both statements before signing the second. The first statement was then given to him to keep (R 44,53)*
The statement of accused as to a "hot peter" was incorporated in the first statement (R 54)*
Ove$6bjection by the defense (R 4l)» the second statement was admitted in evidence (R 43,45; Ex.E). Accused stated therein that he went to the store to buy a woman’s pocket-book. At 7:15 p.m. he was offered by the man in the store and drank "not'quite a water glass full" of a white liquid which he thought was whiskey, possibly gin. The man was to get some black neckties for him at Reykjavik and accused said that he would return Wednesday (21 July) for the pocket-book and ties. He refused another drink because he "was already beginning to feel what I had". About 10:00 p.m. he returned to the store and entered when he saw a light burning inside. He started to buy- a carton of matches, and when the girl went into the office to get them he followed, seized her by the mouth and began to hit her with the piece of iron (Ex.A) which he had picked up in the store. When asked why he attacked her accused stated "Well sir, to tell the truth I just had a hot peter" (Ex.E),
4.	For the defense, Einarsson, the storekeeper, testified that when accused came to the store between 7-8 o’clock on the evening in question he offered b-im some gin. Accused had two or three drinks (R 47).
Accused testified that he signed the first statement about midnight 16 July (R 50). When he gave Lieutenant Colonel Febiger the statement the latter said that it would not make sense because accused had stated he had no reason for attacking the girl. This statement was the truth. He asked the Colonel if it would help him (accused) to state that he had a hot peter. The Colonel replied "That will be all right", and that if it would help accused he would insert it. The clerk was directed to make the change. The following day accused signed the second statement (Ex.E) after being told that the only change concerned what he had stated the previous evening. Accused signed the second statement without reading it. He was not warned of his rights before signing the second statement (R 51-52).
Captain Woodrow W. Morse, 11th Infantry, a witness for the court, was present on the night of 16-17 July when accused made the first statement. After being warned of his rights accused admitted assaulting Miss Baldvinsdottir, stating that he did not know why he had done it. Captain Morse did not recall any statement made by accused to the effect that he committed the assault because he had a "hot peter" (R 55-57).
5.	The evidence clearly supports the findings of guilty. The testimony of the victim of the assault was undisputed. Accused turned out the lights in the store, followed the girl into the office and unfastened the buttons on her jacket saying "You are a nice girl". He later seized her, put his hand over her mouth and threw her to the floor.
- 4 -
.•£.'! HAL
(215)
During the ensuing struggle he beat her and asked her three times whether she did or did not want to "give in". He kept his hand over the mouth of the girl who screened when she was able to do so. She finally wrestled away from him and escaped. Accused admitted in his statement that he assaulted the girl and that he had beaten her with an iron. The reason for the assault was that he had "a hot peter". The evidence clearly established the alleged intent to commit rape and the attempt to have sexual intercourse with the victim forcibly and against her will (CM ETO 73,
6,	The testimony of accused was in substance confined to the fact that he signed the second statement on the afternoon of 17 July without fully realizing that his statement as to a "hot peter" had been incorporated therein. Lieutenant Colonel Febiger testified that this statement had already been incorporated in the first document and that before he signed the second paper accused was reminded of the previous warning as to his rights and fully advised as to the two changes which had been made* Moreover, accused himself testified that after he made the statement about the "hot peter" Lieutenant Colonel Febiger told the clerk to make the change, and further that he was told the following afternoon that the change made in the second statement concerned what he had told Lieutenant-Colonel Febiger the previous evening. Exhibit E was properly admitted in evidence*
7* The charge sheet shows that accused is 21 years of age and was / inducted to serve one year on 1A February 19A1 with no prior service,
8,	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence,
9,	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSAj A December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years or where he has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Assault with intent to commit rape is such an offense and the approved sentence is fifteen years. Both conditions of the order are present. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in & penitentiary is authorized for the offense of assault with intent to commit a felony, viz* rape (USGA, Title 18, sec,455, p.337). The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisbu
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate G78
240488
- 5 -

#(217)
