#(101)
CONFIDENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations AFO 871
Board of Review.
ETO 533.
UNITED STATES J
v.	)
)
Private First Class AARON (NMI) BROWN,) (18061091), Company B, 383rd Engineer ) Battalion (Separate).	)
)
)
)
1 JUL M3
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLT, EUROPEAN. THEATER OF OPERATIONS.-
Trial ty G.C.M., convened at Seaforth Barracks, Seaforth, England, 8 May 194-3. Sentence! Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures, and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. Penitentiary.
HOLDING of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private First Class
Aaron (NMI) Brown, Company wBn 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), did, at Preston, Lancashire, England, on or about 18 March 1943, with intent to commit a felony, viz, murder, commit an assault upon Police Constable John Martin by willfully and feloniously stabbing the said policeman in the chest with a knife.
- 1 -
firMi-.nrfTjAL
239339
533
CONFIDENTIAL
ADDITIONAL CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War. Specification* In that Private First Class Aaron Brown, Company "B" 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), did, at Preston,
Lancashire, England, on or about 4 March 194-3 by force and violence feloniously take, steal, and carry away from the person of Mrs. Norah Booth the property of one handbag, value about sixteen (16) dollars.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of both Charges and of the Specifications thereunder. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor for 20 years.
The reviewing authority approved only so much of the findings of guilty of the Specification of the Additional Charge and of the Additional Charge, as involves a finding that accused did, at the time and place alleged, and from the person alleged, feloniously steal, take, and carry away one handbag of a value less than $20, approved the findings of guilty of the Specification of the Original Charge and of the Original Charge, approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record for action under Article of War 50£.
3.	With reference to the Additional Charge and the Specification thereunder (robbery in violation of Article of War 93), the evidence for the prosecution shows that at Preston, Lancashire, England, about 10*30 P.M., A March 1943, Mrr Norah Booth, Longridge; Lancashire, was asked by a colored soldier ii* she knew "the time of the Garstang 'busses"• Mrs. Booth replied that she did not, and as she turned to walk away, the soldier snatched her handbag from under her left arm and rah towards the bus station. She followed the soldier, could not find him, and then reported the incident to the police. Mrs. Booth was unable to identify accused as the soldier who had taken her handbag as it was "going on for dark", she bad not taken much notice of the man, and she "had had a certain amount of drink as well *#*" (R.l-4)•	Mrs. Booth
identified as her property which was taken that evening, a black handbag (Ex,A), a change purse, a note wallet which, at the time, had contained money and a small black mascot in the form of a cat. She also identified a card case. From the evidence it would appear that the purse, note wallet, mascot and card case, all contents of the handbag, were introduced in evidence as Exhibit B. Mrs. Booth further identified the ration book of her son, John Rudd (Ex.C), this article also having been in the handbag at the time of the theft (R.2-3).
The handbag (Ex.A), containing a lady's purse was found about 11*30 P.M. on the same evening (4 March) by one Charles Bore in the
(103)
'Gf'M-rjPNTIhL
mens' lavatory at the bus station, Preston. Mr. Bore gave both articles to the Preston Police* Several colored soldiers of the United States Army had been in the lavatory that evening (R.4j Ex.D-stipulated testimony of Bore).
On 25 March 1943, accused was in the custody of the military police at Preston. First Lieutenant Matthew Racki, 383rd Engineer Battalion, who was assigned to accused's company stationed at Garstang, went to Preston and secured from the military police some keys which were among the effects belonging to accused. He returned to Garstang for the purpose of obtaining for accused, at his request, some toilet articles and underwear which were in accused's small wooden locker.
On opening the locker with the keys in question. Lieutenant Rack! found therein a black wallet, apparently of English manufacture, and the mascot (parts of Ex.B), and also a ration-book (Ex.C) inside the wallet, which bore the name "John Rudd". The articles were under a towel. The following day (26 March), Lieutenant Racki left accused's toilet articles with the military police, and gave the wallet and ration book to an inspector of the Preston police. Accused, who was questioned by Lieutenant Racki concerning the articles in his locker, replied that he knew nothing about them (R.5-7).
4.	With reference to the original Charge and Specification thereunder (assault with intent to commit murder in violation of Article of War 93), the evidence for the prosecution shows that on the evening of 18 March 1943, accused and Private John Barnes went to Preston and met two girls, Kathleen Brown and Mary Somerville. Miss Brown had known accused both as Reid Brown and as Reid Taylor, and knew Barnes as Johnny Johnson. During the evening, accused, Miss Brown and Miss Somerville, each had three bottles* of beer and Barnes drank two (R.18-20, 28,33-34,40), They also visited a restaurant where, according to Miss Brown, accused and Barnes compared knives which each' had in his possession (R.20,24). During the evening accused went to a dog track to get a handbag belonging to Miss Brown. tJpon his return she left it in his custody (R.18,20-22,28,33).	Finally, about 10:30 P.M., the
group left a restaurant to go to a "chip" shop, and on the way passed a group of English soldiers who remarked "Oh, look at those niggers". Accused turned back, drew a knife and said "I will cut your darned throat. Repeat what you said". The police then intervened, and the party proceeded to the chip shop, purchased some chips, went to a bus shelter and began to eat them (R.18,23,28-29,34)*
At about 10:30 P.tJ., Constable John Martin, Preston police force, was informed by some British soldiers that two United States Army colored soldiers had drawn knives on two British soldiers. During his investigation. Constable Martin saw in a bus shelter two colored soldiers and two British girls. One of the girls had on an army
3	-
(r^'-NlirL
(104)
'-'ENTiM
overcoat and one of the soldiers was not wearing an overcoat.
Constable Martin, who knew the girl3, told the party to move along. Three of the group left the shelter, but the soldier without an overcoat remained. When Constable Martin again told him to leave, this soldier left, the shelter and turned to face Martin, holding an open knife. Martin told the man to put the knife away and walked toward him. However, the Soldier stepped back, holding the knife in a threatening manner and replied several times "Don't you follow me around. I will kill you". When Martin drew his staff to defend himself, the soldier shouted to his friend “Get behind him". As the friend started to comply, Martin requested a passing cyclist to go to •the police station for aid. He then lost sight of the two men and the girls. Later, he saw the party near an' air raid shelter, and one soldier was putting on an overcoat which he had taken from one of the girls. The two girls “made off". One soldier, who had a knife in his hand, went to the left and did not appear to threaten the constable. The other soldier went to the right. Martin told the men that they were to accompany him to the police station. When the man on the left requested the reason, Martin replied that "*** you can't go round threatening people with knives like you have been doing"• Suddenly, the soldier on the right sprang at Martin, who then felt a severe blow just below his left shoulder. Martin pursued the man who stabbed him but was forced to give up the chase. He identified accused as the man who had previously been without his overcoat, and who had first threatened him with a knife outside the bus shelter. However, he was unable to identify accused as the man who had subsequently stabbed him as "it was in the blackout" and both men were wearing overcoats at the time. As the result of his wound, Martin was hospitalized for two weeks and received a blood transfusion of four pints (R.8-11,13-16).
Medical evidence disclosed that Martin was wounded in the anterior and upper part of the left chest and that he lost considerable bloo4. The wound was about 1 inch in extent, and appeared to have been caused by a cutting instrument. The muscles were lacerated, and the injury extended to the space between the second and third ribs.
A transfusion was npeessary and four days after the injury occurred, Martin's wound was repaired by an operation (R«17;Ex.G).
Private Barnes (Johnson), who was with accused, Miss Brown and Miss Somerville, testified that a British "bobby" requested the party to leave the bus shelter as they were eating chips. Accused asked for a chance to put on his overcoat and the policeman again told accused to get out. 7/hen accused started to comply "the bobby got him by the neck and pushed him out". After the two girls had left the scene, accused remained, arguing with the policeman and paid no attention to the suggestion of Barnes that they depart. The two men then left, followed by the policeman who told them to come to the police station. Accused replied that if the constable got a military policeman and brought him there "he would go with him like a soldier should". The policeman then shone a light in the face of accused who told him to "get the light out of his face". The "bobby" put the
239539
- 4 -
f\ >
(105)
• v * • . \
flashlight in his pocket, repeated his request that they go to the police station, and dropped a stick which he had in his right hand* Accused then "jumped up", hit the policeman in the chest, turned to the right and ran, pursued by the policeman* Barnes went to the left and proceeded to the dog track (where both he and accused were staying that evening)* Barnes did not see a knife in accused's hand when he struck the policeman. However, he did see accused take a knife out of his pocket when he was talking with the constable at the bus shelter. The policeman told accused to put the knife away. Later in the evening, about 11*30 or 12*00 P.M., accused met Barnes at the gate leading to" the' dog track. Accused had a knife in his hand, and told Barnes that he thought that he (accused), "had stabbed the bobby"*
The knife then "had a little bloodstain right around the handle where you close it". Barnes denied having a knife in his possession that evening (R.33-39).
Miss Mary Somerville testified that during the evening Kathleen Brown had been wearing accused's overcoat. When the party were in the bus shelter eating chips, a policeman came by and told them to move on. Accused replied "Why should we move? We haven't done anything wrong". The girls left the shelter and walked to a point about 10 yards away. Accused remained, and argued with the policeman. The policeman was 'shirting his light and "must have pushed Reid"
(accused) as the latter's hat fell off. She heard the policeman say "Put that knife away" but did not see accused strike the constable or make any motion toward him; The girls then went around the corner to an air raid shelter. Accused joined them, asked for his overcoat and said "I am going to kill this god-dam guy". Five minutes later he ran past her pursued by the policeman who was shouting "Stop that man, he has knifed me". The other soldier (Barnes), who had been witness's companion, ran in a different direction. The girls ran after the policeman and found him lying in a shop doorway, attended by some members' Of the air force. The only occasion that evening when she saw a knife in accused's possession was when he drew it on the English soldiers. Early the next morning witness went to the dog track and identified accused, and was present when Miss Brown's handbag and identification cartd was found in his overcoat pocket (R.28-32, Ex.H).
Miss Kathleen Brown in general corroborated Miss Somerville.
She further testified that, Miss‘Somerville and Barnes were kissing each other when a policeman came by and told the party to move on. As Barnes and the two girls left the shelter, accused was arguing with the policeman who called him a "bloody nigger" and then hit him.
Accused fell "till he nearly reached the floor". The two girls then walked'up the street. Later, accused joined the girls, asked Miss Brown for his overcoat and then returned to the constable. Subsequently, accused ran by the girls, followed by the constable who said "Stop that man". Barnes ran in another direction* Miss Brown did not see accused stab the officer. Neither did she see a knife in the possession of accused either at the bus shelter, or when he ran past
5
GuiulULN i iAL
(106)
tha girls pursued by the policeman. She did see accused and Barnes comparing knives earlier 'in the evening, and also saw accused draw a knife when the English soldiers made the remark about "niggers"
(R,18-20,22-27)•
5.	For the defense. Private Solomon Becton, Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion, testified that he lived in the same quarters as accused, that accused had a "lock-up box", and that he had never seen anyone other than accused "go into his box?1. He did not .know whether the box was open or loose, whether it was always locked or whether one of the hinges was broken (R.41).
Accused, upon being advised of his rights, elected to make an unsworn statement. With reference to the night of 18 March 194-3 ’ (on which date accused was alleged to have committed an assault with intent to murdef), accused stated in substance, that Miss Brown had that day telephoned him with reference to her £urse. He left Garstang about 6:00 P.M., went to a dog'track at Preston and obtained the purse from a Private Meehan. He then got some money from a sergeant and went back to town. He had a drink of beer at one pub, met Barnes at another pub, where he had some more beer, left Barnes and went to another bar hoping to see Miss Brown and give her the purse. He remained there until 10:00 P.M., but she did not appear. He then returned to the dog'track and went to bed, intending to return to Garstang the following day; He was awakened "by one policeman, a civilian, and a girl, Capt. Webb and an M.P." He was searched and Miss Brown's'purse found. He was then taken to jail where he had since remained (R.42).
With reference to the charge of robbery on 4- March 194-3, accused stated that while he was in jail, Lieutenant Racki brought him some toilet articles, and asked him whose ration book was in his locker. He was shown "some coupons and some other articles" and denied knowing anything about the articles and could not account for their presence in his locker. He had never seen the articles before. One of the two hinges' on-his’ locker had been loose. One day accused had put a screw in the loose hinge, and had locked the box. Upon his return that same evening, he found the screw removed, and the locker unlocked. Accordingly, he had been afraid to leave anything valuable in the-locker (R.43) •
6* The evidence clearly supports the findings of the court, as approved by the reviewing authority, that accused did, at the time and place alleged and from the person alleged, feloniously take, steal and carry away the property described, of a value of less than $20 (Additional Charge and Specification thereunder). Although Mrs. Booth was unable to identify accused as the colored soldier who had taken her handbag, some of the articles contained in the handbag including the ration card of Mrs. Booth's son, John Rudd, were found three weeks
- 6 -
239539
533
•-ENTIAL
(107)
later In accused's locker. "Proof that & person was In possession of recently stolen property, if not satisfactorily explained, may raise a presumption that such person stole it" (M.C.M., par.112, p.UO). The unsworn statement by accused to the effect that he could not account for the presence of the articles in his locker, that he had never seen them before, and the implication that another person could have easily opened the locker because of a loose hinge and could have put the articles therein, was a matter of evidence to be considered by the court. The findings of guilty indicate that the court did not believe accused.
The alleged value of the handbag, namely about $16, was not established in evidence. However, in view of the nature of the property, which was before the court and the evidence with respect thereto, it may properly be inferred that it was of some substantial value not in excess of $20. The action of the reviewing authority with regard to the value of the property was proper and justified.
Accused was charged with robbery. One of the essential elements of this cf fense is that the property must be taken "by violence or intimidation" (M.C.M., par.l49£, p*170). The evidence does not disclose that Mrs. Booth was intimidated in any manner. The only violence used by accused was that employed in snatching the handbag from under her arm. "Where an article is merely snatched out of another's hand *** and no other force is used and the owner is not put in fear, the offense is not-robbery* (M.C.Mf, par,14^, p.170). "Larceny from the person may be a lesser included offense of robbery* (M.C.M., par.149f, p.171). The action of the reviewing authority in approving only so much of the findings of guilty of the Charge and Specification alleging robbery as involved findings that accused committed the lesser included offense of larceny, was proper.
7. The evidence also substantially supports.the findings of the court that accused committed an assault upon Police Constable John Martin with the intent to commit murder (Original Charge and Specification thereunder). Although Constable Martin could not identify accused.as his assailant because it was dark, and each of the two soldiers involved had on overcoats at the time, the evidence shows that it was accused who stabbed the policeman. Accused, who was then without his overcoat, had threatened Martin a'few minutes earlier with a knife saying "Don't you follow me around, I will kill you". Accused then joined the two girls, asked Miss Brown for his overcoat, and said "I am going to kill this god-dam guy". Martin, who was then approaching the group, saw a soldier putting on his overcoat. As he was talking to the two soldiers, one suddenly lunged at him and inflicted a serious wound. Barnes testified that he saw accused strike the constable, although he did not, at the time, see a knife in accused's possession. Accused then ran by the two girls, pursued by the constable who was shouting "Stop that man, he has knifed me". Approximately an hour later, accused met Barnes at the dog track and
CONFIOhNliRL
said that he thought that he (accused) "had stabbed the bobby*•
Accused then had a knife in his possession with a bloodstain on it.
The identity of accused as the assailant was dearly established.
The medical evidence disclosed that the injury inflicted on r , Martin, which necessitated a blood transfusion, an operation and hospitalization for two weeks, was apparently "caused by & cutting instrument",	Accused* s	use of a knife to inflict a serious injury
on Martin, his threat, addressed to Martin at the bus shelter, to the effect that he would kill him if he followed accused around, and his subsequent statement to the two girls that he was "going to kill this gbd-dam guy", fully warranted the court in finding that accused specifically intended to murder the constable when he committed the assault* Such a specific intent was a requisite element of the offense alleged. (M.C.H., par.H91, p.177).
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights.of accused were -committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, as approved by the reviewing authority, and the sentence. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of assault with intent to commit murder, recognized as an offense ef a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by section 455* Title 18 of the United States Code (R.S. Section 5346$35 Stat* 1143/*
- 8
239539
533
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind,
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. ^ ^ ^3 General, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA.
(109) TO: Commanding
1# In the case of Private First Class AARON (NMI) BROWN, (18061091), Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, as approved by the reviewing authority, and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^-, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 533 For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:	(ETO 533).
C. McNEIL,
Ler General, United States Army, ^Assistant Judge Advocate General.
1 Incl:
Holding of Board of Review.

#(111)
