#(177)
CONFIDENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General ■ with the European Theater of Operations APO 871,
3 0 NOV 1943
CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPU, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial, by G.C.M., convened at London, England 19 October 19h3. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. The United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW.
RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
!• The record of tidal in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2* Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 58th Article of War.
Specification: . In that Private Cecil Mosser, Company A, 3h2nd Engineer General Service Regiment, ETOUSA, did, at Bishops Stortford, Great Dunmow, England, on or about 20 June 19U3, desert the service of the‘United States and did remain in desertion until he was apprehended at London, England, on or about 23 July 19U3.
CHARGE H: Violation of the 6?thArticle of War.
Specification: *##*#*#, having been duly placed in confinement in the Detention Barracks, Central .Base Section, Services of Supply, ETOUSA, on or about 2U July 19h3> did, at London, England, on or about 29 July 19U3> escape from said confinement before, he was set at liberty by proper authority. '	.	.
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 952
UNITED STATES )
)
)
)
Private CECIL MOSSER (19.096562), ) Company A, 3U2nd Engineer	)
General Service Regiment.	)
)
)
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(178)
CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE III: Violation of the 9kth Article of War.
Specification 1. shhhbhh*, did, at London, England,
on or about 29 July 19U3, feloniously take,, steal, and carry away one blouse, Olive Drab, o#the value of about ten dollars and thirty-four cents ($10,3U), one pair trousers, Olive Drab, of the , value of about four dollars and eighty-three cents ($L.83), one waist belYf/ef the value of . about twenty-two cents ($.22), the property of the United States government furnished and intended for the military services thereof..
Specification 2. ****»■»■*, did, at London, England,
on or about 29 July 19U3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one woien shirt, Olive Drab, of the value of about three dollars and sixty-eight cents ($3*68) the property of the United States government furnished and intended for the military service thereof.
CHARGE IV: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	sbhbhbh*-,	did,	at London, England,
on or about 21 July 19U3, knowingly assist Gunner Reginald W. Gunn, H26097, No. I.C.A.R.U., Canadian Any, by wrongfully providing the said gunner Reginald W. Gunn., with an American Amy uniform in order to aid the said Gunner Reginald W. Gunn, to desert from the Canadian Army.
ADDITIONAL
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	93rd Article of War.
Specification 1. •jhbbbk:-*, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Company D, 112th Engineer Regiment, ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 1S> July 19h3, by force and violence, feloniously take, steal and carry away from the person of Sergeant Robert D. Fairchild, Headquarters and. Headquarters Squadron, 8th Bomber Command, ETOUSA, one Gruen , wrist-watch of the value of about twenty dollars ($20.00), and six pounds and ten shillings in English money of the value of about twenty-six dollars ($26.00), the property of Sergeant Robert D. Fairchild, Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 8th Bomber Command, ETOUSA.
Specification 2. ^hhhhhhj-, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Company D, 112th Engineer Regiment, ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on or about 1 August 19U3, feloniously take, steal and carry away five dollars ($3*00) in .the money of the United States, one money order of the value of about two dollars ($2.00), and one one wallet and personal papers of the value of about one dollars ($l.n0), the property of Technician Fourth Grade
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
(179)
■.^HDENTIAL
/
Ernest W. Kodera, 8l8th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA.
Specification 3• ***-***#, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Compary D, 112th Engineer Regiment,
ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on or about 1 August 19U3, feloniously take, steal and carry away one dollar ($1.00) in the money of the .United States, seven shillings in English money of the value of about one dollar and forty cents ($1.U0), one leather wallet and personal papers of the value of about one dollar ($1.00), the property of Sergeant Henry T. Knittel, 818th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA.
Specification U. ****»«*, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Compaq- D, 112th Engineer Regiment,
ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on or about 1 August 19h3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one leather wallet of the value of about one dollar ($1.00), the property of Corporal Joseph Reitano, 8l8th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA.
Specification 3. *hhkbhc-#, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Company D, 112th Engineer Regiment,
ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on or about 1 August 19U3, feloniously take, steal and carry away one Monroe wrist-watch of the value of about twenty-five dollars ($23*00), the property of Technician Fourth Grade Clarence J. Zogleman, §l8th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA.
Specification 6. (Bindings of not guilty.).
Specification 7*	:***#*»Ht,	in conjunction with Private
William Nolan, Company D, 112th Engineer Regiment,
ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on -or about 1 August 19U3, feloniously take, steal and carry away nine pounds (L9) in English money of the value of about thirty-six dollars ($36.00), the property of Private First. Class. James C. Ellis,
818th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA.
Specification 8. (Findings of not guilty).
He declined to plead to the charges and specifications and pleas of not guilty to all charges and specifications were entered on his behalf. He was found guilty of all charges and of all specifications except Specifications 6 and 8, Additional Charge, of which he was found not guilty. Evidence of one previous conviction for absence without leave for two days in violation of Article of War 61 was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 20 years. The reviewing authority approved the findings of the court with the following modifications: Specification 1, Additional Charge, except the words "one Gm en wrist-watch of the value of about twnnty dollars ($20)", substituting therefor the words, "one Gruen wrist-watch, value unknown"] Specification 3, Additional Charge, except the words "one Monroe wrist-watch of the value of about twenty-five dollars ($23)", substituting therefor the words "one Monroe wrist-watch of the -value of less than twenty dollars"] Specification U,
CONFIDENTIAL
(iso)	oowwamrt
Additional Charge except the words Mone leather wallet of the value of about one dollar ($1)", substituting therefor the words "one leather wallet, value unknown"; Specifications 2, 3, U, 5 and 7, Additional Charge except the words "Bishops-Stortford", substituting therefor the words "Dunraow, England". He approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewis burg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial, for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War $0|.
3* The evidence for the prosecution concerning the offenses of which accused was found guilty was as follows:
The defense stating that it had no objection thereto, a certified extract copy of the morning report of accused's organization was admitted in evidence which contained the entry:
»
"20 June 19h3 - Pvt Llosser fr duty to AWOL,
22U5 hrs. TOS" (R8; Pros.Ex.1).
On 23 July 19U3 on Dean Street, Soho, London, England, Sergeant John L.
Kozak, Investigations Division, Provost Marshal General's Detachment,
APO 887 was looking for a Canadian wearing an American uniform. He observed accused talking to a Canadian Highlander. The two soldiers were joined by a man named Reginald Gunn. When asked by Kozak for his pass accused produced a pass issued in the name of Carl E. Lorraine. He and Gunn were taken to the Investigation Division, Provost Marshal General's Detachment where Gunn admitted he was a "Canadian deserter". Accused insisted his name was Lorraine. When the name. Mosser was found on his clothing he said that he had borrowed the uniform from a Corporal Mosser. Upon further questioning he admitted that he was Private Cecil Mosser, and he was then taken to the guardhouse section of the Headquarters Detachment, CBS., SOS, APO 887. The defense stating that it had no objection, the pass bearing the name Carl E. Lorraine was admitted in evidence (P.9-10; Pros.Ex.2) (Charge 1 and Specification).
About 23 July 19U3, accused was placed in confinement in the guardhouse, CBS, SOS, ETOUSA (Rll). About 29 July, Corporal Edward J. Meade, Guardhouse Section,. APO 887 was in charge of a work detail composed of prisoners from the guardhouse of which accused was a member. Accused and a prisoner named Nolan were washing windows.in a building situated about 10 miles from the guardhouse. Meade went downstairs to obtain some rags. When he returned, he took a roll call of the prisoners and found that accused and Nolan were missing. He had given them no permission to leave (Rll-12) (Charge II and Specification).
Reginald ¥. Gunn, H26097, Gunner, No.l Canadian Army Reinforcement Unit, testified that at the time of the trial, he was serving a three-year sentence for absence without leave. On 23 July 19U3 he was in a status of absent without leave and was with accused in Soho, London. Gunn was then wearing a United States army uniform consisting of a tunic, trousers, shirt, .tie and forage cap which he had borrowed from accused (R16-17) (Charge IV and Specification).
- h -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL	(181)
About 29 July 19U3* Technicians Fifth Grade John B. Nurdin, Jr., and William K. Garrett, both of Headquarters Detachment, CBS were billeted in Room 2A, U3 Green Street (London). About that date Nurdin found that there was missing certain Government property which had been issued to him, consisting of one blouse, two pairs of W0.D" trousers, a tie and a belt. Garrett found missing one wool "O.D" shirt which was also Government property and which had been issued to him. Neither man had given accused permission to take the property. At the trial Nurdin identified a blouse bearing the name "Lambert** as the blouse which was missing. It was admitted in evidence and later withdrawn, the defense having withdrawn a previous objection thereto. The prosecution asked the court to take judicial notice of AR 30-3000, stating that a blouse was valued therein at &10.3U, a pair of "0.D" trousers at $U.83, a waist belt at $.22 and a wool "O.D" shirt at 03.68. There was no indication as to whether the court granted the request. (R13-l£; Pros.Ex.3) (Specifications 1 and .2, Charge III).
About 15 July 19U3 Sergeant Robert D. Fairchild, Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, VIII Bomber Command went to the Fitzroy.Tavern,
London where he ordered "a Scotch and a glass of bitter, beer". He saw a red-haired girl and asked if she would like a drink. She accepted and had a drink of Scotch and a glass of beer. The girl had a second glass of beer and Fairchild•ordered another drink of Scotch and another glass of beer. He went to the lavatory, returned to finish his drink and could remember nothing further until he "momentarily" awakened that night in a British hospital. He was then transferred to the 16th Station Hospital.
He missed his Gruen wrist-watch, and his wallet containing about seven pounds in English money, his pass and several other personal items. At the trial he was shown a wrist-watch which he had never seen before (R17-18). It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that if First lieutenant Louis TIT. Shabat, Hedical Corps, 16th Station Hospital were present he would testify that his findings with regard to Fairchild weret
"Multiple bruises, abrasions, cuts, and lacerations about scalp and jaw, caused by unknown assailant. Soldier was dazed and ran temperature of 102 for three days due to head blow. Temperature above normal for three days. Diagnosis:	(1)	Lacerations,
scalp, mild; (2) Contusions, scalp, severe;
(3) Contusions, jaw, severe; (U) Contusions, lower lip, severe; (5) Concussion, cerebral, severe". (R19; Specification 1, Additional Charge).
About 1 August 19U3 the following members of the 818th Engineer Battalion were stationed in or near Dunmow, England:	Technician	Fourth
Grade Ernest W. Kodera', Sergeant Henry T. Knitted, Corporal Joseph Reitano, Technician Fourth Grade Clarence J. Zogleman,.Private First Class James C. Fills. About that date each man discovered that certain property belonging to him was missing. Kodera*s property, which was in his trouser's pocket next to his bed consisted of a black leather wallet containing a five-dollar American bill, a two-dollar money order, a canteen check and some other personal property (R19) (Specification 2, Additional Charge). Knittel missed from his trousers a wallet, an American dollar bill, a "FX".card,
5 - CONFIDENTIAL
(182)
MIDENT1AL
about six shillings in change and some photographs (R19-20) (Specification 3, Additional Charge). Reitano's property consisted of hisblack leather wallet, marked with his initials " J.R" which contained a "PX" card, driver*s license, and a few personal photographs (R20-21) (Specification U,
Additional Charge). Zogleman missed a .silver llonroe wrist-watch which had been in his shirt pocket (R21) (Specification 3, Additional Charge), and Ellis missed his wallet containing a passport and nine pounds (R21-22) (Specification 7, Additional Charge).
On 2U July and on .27 September 19U3, Kozak took statements from accused who had previously been warned as to his rights. The statements, which were reduced to writing and signed by accused were admitted in evidence with the exception of certain portions bracketted in red pencil (R23-2Uj Pros.Exs. U, 5)*
In substance accused stated therein that he "deserted** his organization about 19 June 19U3 at Bishops-Stortford, Great Dunmow, and went to London with 23 pounds in his pocket. After spending this money he lived on the earnings of prostitutes, on money he received from a girl acquaintance and by "panhandling" from American soldiers. About four weeks prior to 2U July he asked a soldier to request "the boys in hut seventeen" to bring some of his clothing and toilet articles to a London restaurant. Thereafter some things were left for him at the restaurant including a complete uniform (Pros.Ex.U) (Charge 1 and Specification).
•> ■
In a bar in Soho he met a Canadian in civilian clothes whose name and identity he later discovered to be W.R. Gunn, H26097, a gunner in the • Canadian any who was a deserter and escaped prisoner. Gunn expressed a desire for an American uniform which would make it easier for him to escape detection. Accused agreed to let Gunn wear his extra uniform, and on 21 July 19U3 left it for him at a bar where Gunn later picked it up. The two men. met at the bar, secured some passes from an American soldier, filled them in with "fake" names and serial numbers and registered at the Victory Club (Pros.Ex.3) (Charge TV and Specification).
On 13 July 19U3 accused and Private William Nolan, 112th Engineer. Regiment, Company D, and a red haired, girl named "Violet" went to the Fitzroy Tavern, London. They planned that the girl should "pick up" an American soldier with a lot of money, and put some aspirin in his drink when he was not looking "to make him groggy". Nolan and accused were to rob him when he left the pub. At the Fitzroy Tavern the girl became acquainted with an American Sergeant and put two aspirin tablets in his drink when he went to the lavatory. When they left the pub, Nolan and accused followed the girl and the sergeant to an alley which had been previously selected as the place to commit the robbery. Accused hit the sergeant on the head with a rock and both he and Nolan then knocked him unconscious. Accused took his wallet and.Nolan removed his wrist-watch.
They divided the proceeds, accused receiving two pounds ten shillings, the girl two pounds, ard Nolan two pounds and the watch (Pros.Ex.3) (Specification 1, Additional Charge).
• * •
Accused met Nolan again when he was sent to the guardhouse, Headquarters
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(183)
Detachment, CBS, SOS, APO 887. On 29 July 19U3 he and Nolan were members of a detail of prisoners cleaning windows at premises occupied by llith Port Battalion. The two men were on a high first floor and escaped by going down the rainpipe (Pros.Ex.5) (Specification, Charge II).
They went to some billets on Green Street, London and stole two ' complete uniforms (Pros.Ex.5) (Specifications 1 and 2, Charge Hi).
On 30 July 19U3 accused and Nolan 'entered a building occupied by the 8l8th Engineer Battalion at Bishops-Stortford, Great Dunmow, -where they stole the wallets of two men who were asleep. One wallet was empty, and the other contained three one-dollar bills aid a five-dollar bill.
Accused also took seven shillings from the trousers of one of the soldiers. They threw away the papers and kept the wallets (Pros.Ex.5)•
On the night of 31 July 19U3 Nolan and accused returned to the same camp and sifter the men were asleep, entered about six tents and stole some wallets, one of which, plain brown in color and bearing the initials "J.M", contained three American one-dollar bills. From these thefts they realised about twelve pounds. He did not recall how many wallets they took nor was he sure thsit Nolan informed him of all the articles which he had taken (Pros.Ex.5).
They returned to Bishops Stortford the following morning (1 August), spent the day drinking, became very drunk and separated. Nolan was trying to sell things to soldiers. On 2 August, accused woke up in the railroad station at Stanstead, went to Cambridge with another soldier where they did "quite a lot of drinking". He then went to Oxford where he was picked up by the military police and sent to the 2nd General Hospital where he was identified by Sergeant Kozak. He was sent to APO 887 where he was questioned by Kozak at;', the Investigation Division (Pros.Ex.5).
U. Upon being advised of his rights accused elected to remain - silent (R2U-2$).
■ £.	(a).	The trial judge advocate requested the court to take
judicial notice of Army Regulation 30-3000 (Quartermaster Corps price list of clothing and equipage) stating that it valued the articles described in Specifications 1 and 2 of Charge III as alleged therein. There was no indication in the record of trial as to whether or not the court acceded to this request (Rl3)• As' accused was found guilty of the specifications it may be presumed that the court did in fact take judicial notice of the provisions of the army regulation concerned. Similarly it may be assumed that the court granted the request of the trial judge advocate that it take judicial notice of the fact that the value of the English pound -was &U.03 (R22).	,
(b). Before accused pleaded to the charges and specifications the defense counsel moved to strike out "all the specifications after the first charge under the 93rd Article of War on the grounds that each specification after the first alleges a separate charge, a duplicity of crimes specified, instead of being separately charged, and the_ effect of such duplicity is
- 7 -
CONFJPENTjAL.
CONFIDENTIAL
(184)
prejudicial to the defendant". It was maintained that accused "might have a better chance" if he were tried separately on the specifications contained under the charge alleging a violation of the 93rd Article of war. The motion was denied (R6-7)• The contention by the defense that accused was entitled to a separate trial with respect to the Additional Charge and the specifications thereunder is, of course, without merit.
Multiplicity of charges and specifications should be avoided.
"The theft of several articles at the same time and place and in the same manner constitutes but one larceny. CM 161*838;	166326;	185535 (1929);
192790 (1930)" (Dig. Ops. JAG. 1912-191*0, sec. 1*28
(11*), p.298).
"V7here the larceny of several articles is substantially one’ transaction, it is a single larceny even though the articles belong to different persons. Thus, where a thief *** goes into a room and takes property belonging to various persons, there is but one larceny, which should be alleged in but one, specification".
(ICM., 1928, par. ll*9£, p.171).	'	*
The articles described in the specifications of the Additional Charge were alleged therein to have "been stolen at the same place on or about 1 August 19U3, and the evidence shows that the respective owners of such articles found them to-be missing on or about that date. The statement by aocused shows that he and Nolan on the night of 30 July stole the wallets of two men who were asleep in the same building, and that the following night they entered about six tents at the same camp where men v;ere sleeping and took'several wallets. The period of confinement imposed was twenty years. Assuming but not deciding that because of the foregoing circumstances the various thefts should have been at least partially consolidated, the Board of Review is of’ the opinion that any multiplicity involved did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused in view of the allegations of other and serious offenses for one of which the court could legally have imposed the death sentence -■ (desertion in violation of Article of VTar 58).
• • *
6.	It was established by the evidence, and by his own statement, that accused absented himself without leave at the place and time alleged and that such absence was terminated by apprehension in London 33 ddys later. Although he was frequently in the vicinity of military installations he did not surrender to military authority. During his absence he lived on the earnings of prostitutes, on money received from a girl acquaintance, by "panhandling" from American soldiers, and committed the crime of robbery. At his request, a complete uniform and some other articles were brought to London for his use. When apprehended he produced a'pass issued in the name of Carl E. Lorraine and insisted that his’name was Lorraine. "When the name of Mosser was found on- his clothing he said that he had borrowed the uniform from a Corporal Mosser, but upon further questioning finally admitted that he was Private Cecil Mosser. Intent to desert was fully established
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(185)
(CM ETC 913, Pierno; CM ETO 323, Poteet; CM ETO 800, Ungard;
CM ETO 7UO, Lane) (Charge I and Specification).
Similarly it was clearly proved by the evidence, including the statement by accused that at the timesand places alleged he committed the offenses alleged in Charge II and Specification (escape from confinement in violation of Article of War 69), in Charge III and specifications (larceny in violation of Article of War 9U) and in Charge IV and Specification (knowingly assisting a soldier to desert from the Canadian army by -wrongfully providing him with an American army uniform in violation of Article of War 96). The evidenceincluding accused's statement is also legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as approved by the reviewing’ authority of the offense alleged in Specification I of the Additional Charge (robbery in violation of Article of War 93)•
It has been held that where several articles have been stolen, the corpus delicti in each case having been established, and accused is found in possession of part of the stolen articles after the theft, such fact • may be considered as tending to show he was guilty of stealing all of the articles (CM 137982, Acosta; CM 192031, Allen). If the finding of part of the stolen articles in accused's possession furnishes the basis for such an inference, an admission by accused himself that he actually stole some of the articles would normally provide an even stronger inference that he took all of the articles alleged.’ Kodera testified that about 1 August at Dunmow he missed his wallet which contained a five-dollar American bill, a two-dollar money order, a canteen check and other personal property, and that when Knittel searched his own trousers he found that his wallet was missing. Knittel testified that about 1 August at Dunmow he missed a wallet, an American dollar bill, a "EX" card, about six shillings in change and some photographs (Specifications 2 and 3, Additional Charge). Both men were members of the 8l8th Engineer Battalion. In his statement accused admitted that on the night of 30 July he and Nolan entered a building occupied by the 8l3th Engineer Battalion and stole the wallets of two men, that one wallet was empty and the other contained three one-dollar bills and one five-dollar bill. He also took seven~*skillings from the trousers of one of the men. They threw away the papers and kept the wallets. It is the opinion of the Board of Review that the property concerned was satisfactorily identified by the evidence and that in view of the principle enunciated in the Acosta and Allen cases hereinbefore cited, the evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specifications 2 and 3 of the Additional Charge.
Reitano testified that about 1 August he missed his leather wallet and Ellis missed his wallet containing a passport and nine pounds. Both men were members of the 813th Engineer Battalion. In his statement accused admitted that on the evening of 31 July he and Nolan returned to the same camp at Great Dunmow, entered about six tents, stole some wallets and realized about 12 pounds from the thefts. . Although accused's statement as to the vd-lets and their contents is most general in character, it is the opinion of the Board of Review that the property was sufficiently identified, that the principle of the Acosta and Allen cases is similarly applicable and that the evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specifications I; and 7 of the Additional Charge.
- 9 -
UONFIDENTIAL
confidential
(3.86)
With reference^ to Specification 5 of the Additional Charge (larceny-in violation of Article of Yiar 93), the only evidence presented by the prosecution was the testimony of the owner Zogleman, a member of the 8l8th Engineer Battalion, that when he arose on the morning of 1 August 19U3 near Great Dunmow he found missing from his shirt pocket a silver Monroe wrist-watch. The statement made'by accused contained no reference-to this watch and is' limited to his admission that on 30 and 31 July he and Nolan committed a series of thefts of wallets containing money and . papers from members of the 3l3th Engineer Battalion at Bishops Stortford, Great Dunmow. There was no evidence -that accused or Nolan were ever in possession of the watch. The statement by accused that on the evening . of 30 and 31 July, they stole wallets and money from members of Zogleman's organization at the place alleged, that he was hot sure that Nolan had told him of all the articles which he, Nolan, had taken and that on the morning of 1 August Nolan was trying to sell articles to soldiers, clearly does not justify any inference that Zogleman's watch was among the articles which were stolen. Accordingly, the evidence is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 5 of the Additional Charge.
7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of sge and that he
enlisted on 17 April 19U2 at Seattle, ’Washington for the duration of the war plus six months.	'	'	■	;	<	’
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the -person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial with reference to the findings of guilty which have been sustained herein. The 3oard of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charges I, II, III, IV and of the specifications thereunder, legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as approved by the reviewing authority of Specifications 1, 2,3, U and 7 of the ' Additional Charge and of the Additional Charge, legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification $ Of the Additional Charge and legally sufficient to support the sentence.
9« Pursuant to paragraph GO # 37, ETOUSA, 9 September 19U2 as amended by GO # 63, ETOUSA, U December 19U2 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more.- Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion in time of war (Article, of War U2) and for robbery by Sec. 1+63 Federal Criminal Code (18
Judge Advocate.
vocate. udge Advocate.'
- 10 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
(187)
■s ft WftU 1QAQ
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. ° u w	TO:	Com
General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 837, U. S. Army.
TO: Commanding
1.	In the case of " Private CECIL MOSSER (19096562), Company A,
3U2nd Engineer General Service Regiment attention is invited to the . foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charges I,.
II, III, IV and of the specifications thereunder,. legally sufficient
to support the findings of guilty as approved by the reviewing authority of Specifications 1, 2, 3, U and 7 of the Additional Charge and of the Additional Charge, legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 5 of the Additional Charge and legally sufficient to. support the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50i you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement.-The file number of the record in this office is ETO 952. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 952).	....-•
Brigadier General, United States Arb^fji Assistant Judge Advocate Generalj

#(189)
