#(137)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater-of Operations AK> 871
BOAPD OF REVIEW ETO 1232
UNITED STATES)
)
)
>
Second Lieutenant JOHN H. ) BAXTER (0-731137)» 533rd	)
Bombardment Squadron, 381st ) Bombardment Group (H),	)
31 JAN 1944
VIII BOMBER COMMAND
Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 103, APO 634, on 30 November 1943* Sentence* To be dismissed the service.
EDIDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTSN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1,	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of. Operations,
2,	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	64th Article of War*
Specification:	In	that	2nd	Lieutenant John E»
Baxter, 533rd Bombardment Squadron,, 38lat	,	,	,
Bombardment Group (H), having received,a lawful command from 1st Lieutenant Karl (NMI) Franek, his kiperior officer, 533rd,
Bombardment Squadron, 381st Bombardment Group (H), to report to his Squadron *	Commander for flying duty and to fly with
his squadron on a scheduled combat operational mission, did, at AAF Station 167,
APO 634, on or about 8 October 1943 * wilfully disobey the same.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification, No evidence of previous convictions was introduced, Ee was sentenced to be dismissed the Service, The reviewing authority, the Commanding General', VIII
- 1 -
(138)
- -	f	v
Bomber Command, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 1}8. The confirming authority, the Comramding General, European Theater of Operations, disapproved so much of the findings of guilty of the Specification of the Charge as involved willful' disobedience of an order to report to accused's Squadron Cormnand^r for flying duty as not being supported by the*evidence, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 5o£.
3* The evidence for the prosecution is substantially as follows:
On 8 October 1943 First • Lieutenant Karl Franek, 533r<^ Bombardment Squadron, 381st Bombardment Group, Station 167, was operations officer of the 533r<l (Bombardment) Squadron. His duty consisted of exorcising direct control over the flying personnel with respect to training, assignments,, crew-making, flying schedules and 'status reports (R6)« On that day an operational combat mission was scheduled for Anklam, Germany (R7)« Lieuteqant Franek brought the crews to the ;"briefing" where Major Hendrick (apparently the Squadron Commander) stated that "as we were short of a bombadier Eaxter would have to fly and to get him" (R8). About 9 a.m. 8 October Lieutenant Franek ordered accused	•
* * to fly on a mission in accordance	.
with orders given to me by the Squadron Commander.
*	*	*	*	*
I told him he would have to fly on that mission and he refused.	,
*	*	*	*	*
I told Lieutenant Baxter that he would have to fly and that was all there was to it and also at the time he told me he would not, and I said it would probably lead to a court-martial and he should, go and speak to Major Hendrick at the	,
time, which he did." (r6-7).
The order given was for an operational combat mission, and no preliminary order was given'prior to the order that he should fly on the mission (R7)« Lieutenant Franek did not know the destination and so did not disclose it to accused, who although not previously scheduled to go on the mission, was to substitute as bombadier for another man who was ill (E8-9). However, the crew wa3 the one to which accused was regularly assigned* His crew left on the mission without him4R7-8).
• 2 - i
i
(139)
On 4 October after a mission to Frankfurt, he told Lieutenant Franek that he was through with flying and wanted to quit ’ because of a mental incapability to co-ordinate himself. He said that he had gone to pieces on two other missions, did not think he could do his job and did not want to be a hazard to the crew (R8-9). After 4 October the crew had gone on a mission without him because Major Hendrick had thought that if he "was off a couple of missions it might help him" (RIO).
It was stipulated that accused was in the military service and that Lieutenant Franek was authorized to give him orders (r6).
First Lieutenant Frank S. Guiner, 42nd Military Police Company,
AAF Station 167, appointed to investigate the charges, interviewed accused who, after being warned of his rights, stated orally that he had-refused to fly because he thought he was a detriment to his crew (RIO).
i	i
i
4* For the defense, accused testified that he "graduated 10 October 1942 ih Arizona and I was second fiighest in the class ■***". He had requested combat duty but against his wishes was retained as an instructor. After six or seven months on duty as an instructor in the United States he was finally assigned to a B 17 creir.	He had been "quite nervous" while
attending Bombardier School, and after graduation was taken up in a ship which the pilot "wrung**out" in a	fruitless	effort	to	help him get rid of
his nervousness and air sickness.	~ "In the	States	it	was O.K. but over
here it is a different story with someone else depending on you". He had participated in one combat mission to Frankfurt which aborted and in fm air sea rescue to Norway. After the Frankfurt raid on 4 October, he told Lieutenant Franek that he did not want to fly any more because he "froze" on his guns under attack and was a detriment to his crew. The navigator had to take over his guns. Rather than continue to fly and endanger the lives of the crew he said that he preferred to be grounded, whereupon the lieutenant replied that "he would	see about	it".	On	the morning of 8
October the crew was "briefed" on	a raid to	Germany.	Lieutenant Franek
told witness that the bombardier scheduled to-go was ill and Major Hendrick had asked "for me to be put on". Lieutenant Franek said "'Go get your stuff ready and report to the-line to fly' and I told him I was not going . to do it as I had told him 4 days previously." The order was to fly with the crew on an operational mission. He did not fly. " Between 4-8 October he was not told whether he was still on a flying status. During that period he had not seen the flight surgeon1with respect to his condition, but he was examined by tne squadron flight surgeon after 8 October. Upon being question, ed by a member of the court, accused further testified in substance that on 4 October he went on the Frankfurt raid, that the fact that the crew "aborted" had not been due to a mechanical failure of the plane but that the abortion had some relation to his having been a member of the crew (Rll-13).
Admitted in evidence as an exhibit for the defense was a copy of AK 40-110, 3 December 1942, entitled Standards of Physical Examination for Flying (Rll, Def. Ex. A). Also admitted as a defense exhibit was the report
n r. o
i \ '
of a Flying Evaluation Board of four officers dated 28 October 1943» and which contained in part the follov/ing entries:
* * * *
"(8)Flying status and limitations Fully qualified (physically) for all types of flying as Bombardier.
* * * *
(13)Mental attitude toward flying Boor
(14^Observation of flying proficiency Bombardier adequate record.
(15)	Flight Surgeon's Report:
(a) General physical condition Physically qual for flying Class*1.
* * * *
(d) Neuro-psychic Unsatisfactory.
* * * . *
(16)	Classification: Unlimited-Limited Unlimited"
The commanding officer, AAF Station 167, concurred in the report of the board (R13» Def. Ex. B). '(Underscoring supplied).
It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that accused was among the officers listed in paragraph 3, SO 122, Hqj AAF Station I67, APO 634» 27 October 1948 which provided that
■U.P. para 2 AR 35-1480, the following officers, organizations indicated, are suspended from further participation in regular and frequent aerial flights".
(M-3).	'	,
5.	The undisputed evidence, including accused's own "testimony, shows that at the time and place alleged, accused was ordered by Lieutenant Karl Franek, his superior officer, to fly with his squadron on a scheduled combat operational mission. He willfully refused to comply with'the order although told that his conduct in refusing to go would probably result in a court-martial.
The defense contended'that
"*** under the 64th (Article of War) he cannot be charged if he had previously given notice he was not going to perfonn an act and subsequently to give the order for the sole purpose "of increasing the penalty does not make that proper"(Rll).
This contention by the defense is without merit. Accused testified that on 4 October he told Lieutenant Franek that because he
- 4 -
(HI)
■froze" to his guns under attack, he "didn’t -want to fly any more" as he felt he would endanger the lives of the crew, and that he would, therefore, "rather he grounded"* Lieutenant Franek replied that "he would see about it?* There was no evidence from which it could reasonably be inferred that on 4 October he had refused unqualifiedly to fly again. Rather, the evidence indicates a request that he be grounded. Also, there was not the slightest evidence that the order to fly on 8 October was given for the sole purpose of increasing any "penalty". The record of trial does not show that any offense had been committed prior to 8 October for which it could be inferred that he would be penalized. After 4 October it was thought that it mi^it benefit accused if "he was off a couple of missions" and for this reason he did not accompany his crew on a mission which occurred between 4-8 October. He was not originally scheduled to go on the mission of 8 October and was ordered to do so solely because of the illness of the bombardier who had been previously assigned. Accused was then on flying status, was qualified to fly and was subject to the order given. The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of the Charge and Specification as confirmed by the confirming authority.
6* The charge sheet shows that accused i3 25 years of age. He served in the regular army from 22 November I938 to 18 February 1942, on which date he was a member of the 135th Infantry Regiment} served as an aviation cadet from 19 February 1942 to 9 October 1942, and on 10 October 1942 was commissioned a second lieutenant Air Corps.
7* The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as confirmed by the confirming authority and the sentence. Dismissal is authorized upon conviction of a violation of Article of War 64.
- 5 -
1st Ind
(U2)
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 3 1 JAN 1944 TOt Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S, Army,
1.	In the case of Second Lieutenant JOHN H. BAXTER (0-73U37.)* 533r<i Bombardment Squadron, 381st Bombardment Group (H)» attention is invited to the forgoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as confirmed and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5^i you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1232. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order» (ETO 1232),
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCHO 7, ETO, 5 Feb 194A)
#(143)
