#(235)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations AFO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 1360
1 ,
UNITED	STATES	)
)
)
)
Private LEMUEL G. POE (34703811),	)
Company B,	49 th	Replacement	)
Battalion,	10th	Replacement	)
Depot *	}
)
'	)
) )
2 4 FEB 1944
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EURO IE AN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
' Trial by G.C.M., convened at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England,
18'January 1944* Sentencei Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. ■ Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks,
Beekman, New York,
»
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
. \
I
1,	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review,
2,	" Accused was tried upon the following charges and'specifications!
CHARGE Ii Violation of the 6lst Article of War.
Specificatiom In that Private Lemuel G. Poe,
Company B., 49th Replacement Battalion," 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,
Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his Organization at Whittington Barracks,
Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, from on or about I83O hours, 8 January 1944, to on or about 2300 hours, 8 January 1944*
CHARGE .III Violation of the 64th Article of War.
Specification! In that Private Lemuel G. Poe, •
Company B., 49th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,
Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, on the Lichfield-Tamworth Road, near Lichfield,
Staffordshire, England, on or about 8 January 1944, strike JAMES A. KILIAN, Colonel, Cavalry, 1
1
(236)
his superior officer, who was then in the , execution, of his office on the body and face with his hands and feet.
. i	.
He pleaded not guilty, to and was found guilty of both charges and their specifications. .Evidence of two previous convictions wjas introduced! one by summary court for absence without leave for one day in violation of the 6lst Article of War and one by special court-martial for offenses gainst persons suppressing a disorder in violation of the 68th Article of War and for assault and battery in violation of the 96th Article of War. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct "for the rest of your natural life. The reviewing* authority approved the sentence, reduced the period of confinement to 20 years, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks', Beekman, New York, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War
* 3* The evidence introduced by the prosecution was substantially ' as follows!
Colonel James A. Kilian, Cavalry, commanding 10th Replacement Depot, testified that he was driving alone (R13) at about ten o'clock on the night of 8 January 1944, towards Whittington BarrackJP'Itom Sutton-Coldfield.	He( had been on an inspection tpip (Rll) and was dressed in
Class "A* uniform (R13)» As he paused at the intersection of the Lich-field-London road by the Shoulder-of-Mutton "pub", he noticed that it was closing. He crossed the London road and entered a narrow lane on the other side. Two soldiers were standing in the lane. As he approached the smaller of the two stepped into the car-lights and signaled. Colonel Kilian stopped and the soldier stuck his head in the open right-hand car-door window and said, "'Buddy, are you going to Lichfield?On being ' answered in the affirmative, the soldier opened the door and both soldiers entered the rear seat of the car. The smaller one sat on'the left side. Colonel'KLlian then put the car in motion. One of thfe soldiers remarked they wehe lucky to get a ride or they would have' been late and fcolonel ' Kilian asked them, "'Late for what?'", knowing that’it'was only ten o'clock (Rll). He was answered, %"late for bed check". As they approached the Horse and Jockey "pub", one of the soldiers suggested they stop and have a last drink, to which Colonel Kilian answered, "'These pubs are closed.
You boys don't think you've had about enough to drink tonight anyway?
I'll take you to the barracks.'* He looked over his shoulder and his impression was that the right fist of the man sitting in the left rear seat struck him on the cheekbone. He stopped the car, turned his flash-light in the man's face, told him who he was and flashed the light on his shoulder so that they could see his insignia. He asked for their identification tags which they produced and held towards him. As he took hold of the tags to look at them with the illumination of his flashlight, one of the soldiers moved backwards broke the chain and took his tags back. He again identified himself to the soldiers and ordered them to cease. They
2
(237)
appeared belligerent# He stepped from the car through the right front door# , The soldier who struck him dismounted from the automobile by the left rear door and came.around to the other side of car# ' The other soldier made hi3 exit by the right rear door. Colonel Kilian again told them to behave and quiet down but they rushed at him# One of them struck at him and knocked his glasses from his face# As the two soldiers approached to attack, he, momentarily stopped them with a body kick to one and by a fist blow in the face to the other (R12)# Being vpry nearsighted he had difficulty, without his glasses, in recognizing anything (Rl6). As he stooped over to recover his glasses, the larger man bumped into him and the smaller one kicked his hand and the glasses as he reached for them, knocking them further down the road. When again he attempted to recover his glasses, a similar attack was made and the glasses knocked into the grass# Colonel Kilian moved towards the car# The two soldiers followed and attempted to .strike and kick him. He told them to stop)#
As he reached the car, they both charged, forced him back about^eight feet against the bank and, one on each side, continued to strike him (R12). The larger soldier, at the direction of the smaller one had removed the keys from the car# Then one soldier .said to the other,■•Have you got your knife? Let's cut his throat'*# Hot having a Jcnife, they, said,*'We'll get some rocks and beat his head off#'* They started back towards the car, the smaller soldier still trying to strike and kick# The larger soldier suddenly disappeared towards Whittington Barracks and Colonel Kilian chased the other down the road as a British man and hi3 wife, an American soldier and a truck arrived# They caught the soldier Colonel Kilian was chasing and placed him forcibly in the truck# The British lady searched for and found the glasses and also an overcoat, which was pladed in the car (R13)#
It was a bright moonlight night and the struggle lasted about a half-hour (R14)* Colonel Kilian did not smell liquor on the two soldiers whose approximate height and weight he described# Neither soldier wore an overcoat but the larger carried one over his arm. It was the smaller of the two soldiers, the 'aggressive one, who was caught and taken to the guard- * house and whom Colonel Kilian positively identified as accused (R16-17)1.
First Lieutenant Arthur 0. Burnett, commanding officer of Company S, formerly Company B until its reorganization on 9 January 1944# 49'th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, identified the morning report of Company S which was admitted in evidence# It showed accused from duty to absence without leave 1800 hours 8 January 1944# and to confinement as of 2230 hours the same night (R7j Pros.Ex#A)#
*	i	i
Private Robert P# Gossett, Company S, Casual, 10th Replacement Depot, in charge of the wing of Sullivan Barracks in which accused lived, testified that accused was not present in the barracks either at retreat when roll was called or at bed check at.11 o'clock on the night.of 8 January 1944* He further testified that soldiers in his charge were allowed one six-hour and one 24-hour pass a week# Passes were requested during the mornings# Accused did not ask for a pass on 8 January 1944 (R8). •
Second Lieutenant William J. Kuehlne who was commanding officer, of Company B, 49'*;k Replacement Battalion on 8 January 1944» testified as to the method of issuing passes# A typewritten record of passes was kept under his direction and the company records of six hour passes from 4 January to 11 January-1944 and of'24-hour passes, from 27 December 1943 to 16 January 1944 were admitted in evidence as Pros* Ex. B,and C respectively. Extract copies of these two pass records for 8 January 1944 were substituted in lieu thereof (R9-10)# The name of accused does not appear on either of them*)
%	»	i	. i
Technician Third Grade Alvis L. Fletcher, Company A, 49th Replacement Battalion, testified that about 10jlj> on the night of 8 January 1944, he was about a 'block this side of the Horse and Jockey'pub, coming toward the post from Lichfield." He heard a commotion in the direction of, a sedan which was parked on the side of the'road and noticed two figures which came from the vicinity of the car# They were struggling. ' One called for help# He approached and’saw that' they were a colonel and a private of the United States Army, who were apparently fighting# He heard the private say to the man who had fallen on the ground'I'll kill you/ you son-of-a-bitch'" (R17)# He was kicking the colonel in the face (R24)# The Colonel asked him to help and as Fletcher' walked up to grapple with him the soldier backed away# He reached towards his hip pocket and stated that he had a gun and would kill him# Fletcher tackled him, "frisked" him, found no weapon and held him# He identified the men as accused (R18), He
‘saw only Colonel Killan and accused at the scene (RI9),.
%
Private Joseph Quercia, Motor pool Detachmept, loth Replacement Depot testified that he was on his way to Lichfield about 10x15 or 10x20 on the night of 8 January 1944. About a 100 yards before he reached the ■Horse and Jockey* he saw a car parke.d beside the road with a truck behind it (R19). . Thinking it was an accident, he stopped, flasped a light, and saw on the walk,' a man lying face1 down# A sergeant held him. Colonel Xilian ordered him to help. He searched the ground and found two dog tags. Attached to one was a piece of bullet. He looked at the name on them and , identified two dog tags shown him in cour,t as those he found. Each had the name Poe thereon (R20)# They were admitted in evidence as Pros# JSx#
D (R21). '
i
i Captain Milton Feinberg, a medical .officer, 37th Replacement Battaliop, 10th Replacement Depot, testified that he examined Colonel Kilian on the night of 8 January 1944 and found contusions on his head and face, a black eye and an abrasion of the right Jmee (R22) all recently incurred (R23)# He also examined two men in the guardhouse, one of whom he identified as accused, who had a contusion on his lip and scratches on his right hand, all of recent origin. He snjelled liquor on accused's breath but could find no impairment of his mental or physical faculties (R23-24).	.
Jim' .The only testimony for the defense was accused's unsworn statement as followsx
-4.
(239)
■On January the 8th, about six-thirty or seven o'clock, I went to,a pub which is down the road towards Lichfield about a mile and a half, and I had sevr eral beers there* And then I made my way on down to another pub which is on the left side of the road about a.quar-.ter .of a mile on ,down.towards Lichfield, and I had several drinks, Scotch, beer.
I stayed about an hour at the first pub and about an hour at the next pub. And then I came back to the Horse and Jockey, which is the first pub and just dropped .in there for about fifteen minutes, I'd say, and had another beer. Then on my journey home to camp here, about I don't know how far it was from the pub, but I .saw a car of some kind, I can't identify it, and men running around* I couldn't tell who they,were. And someone attacked me. Jumped on my back. I thought it was an UP, and I was held.on 'tfye ground and brought to the guardhouse Number 1.
I wa3.a little bit intoxicated. That is all I know, sir." (R25).
5.	jIn rebuttal. Private Michael E. Flood, Jr., Company A, 37th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Eepot, testified that he had known accused about three months. On the night of 8 January 1944 he was in.the Shoulder-of-Mutton'"pub" and saw accused leave there about ten o'clock. The *pub" is located on the old London Road about a mile from Lichfield in the direction of the camp (R26).
6.	There is evidence that accused was absent from,his organize-, tion without official leave on.the night of 8 January 1944* He was not present at retreat nor at bed check at eleven o'clock that night. The record of passes in the company for that day does not show him as on pass and the comp any.morning.report showed him absent without leave at
6	p.m. He was positively identified by the witness, Fletcher, as the soldier whom he saw kicking Colonel Kilian. His identification tags were found at the locus of the crime. Colonel Kilian upon hearing the accused speak in the court room was positive in his identification of the accused as one of the soldiers who attacked him. His physical condition immediately following tha attack on Colonel Kilian evidenced the fact that recently he had been engaged in an affair of violence. There is therefore substantial evidence identifying accused as Colonel Kilian's assailant, and under such circumstances the findings of the court on the issue of identity are binding on the Board of Review (CM ETO 78, Wattst CM ETO 492, Lewis).
7.	The evidence is clear and replete that accused was absent from rh-La battalion without official leave at the time alleged. The findings
(210)
of guilty of Charge I and its Specification are sustained by the evidence#
> ; » ,
8.	Proof of the violation of Article of War 64 as alleged in Charge II and its Specification requires a showing!
"(a) That the accused struck a certain officer **** as alleged;
(b)	That such officer was the accused's superior officer at the time;
(c)	That such superior officer was in the execution of his office at the
. .	time*	(Manual	for	Courts-Martial, 1928,	',
par.l34a, p.148).
The record of trial shows there is substantial evidence to support each of the above requirements# There is not the slightest doubt that accused struck and kicked Colonel Kilian as alleged, after his victim had offered him the courtesy and kindness of transportation to his station#
9# Colonel Kilian, during the course of his examination by the court on the issue of accused's identity, requested that the accused speak# Upon inquiry,from the Law Member as %o whether there was objection, both the prosecution and defense declared.that there.was none# Thereupon the following colloquy occurred;
What do you want me to4say?
The voice is not the same as they.were down there. Say, 'Buddy, give me a lift', <?r something. Buddy, giv^ me a lift, will you? That's the fellow# _
Q,# You're positive in your identification that this man is the one thht attacked you and is the one that,you described as the smaller of the t?o fellows?
A. Yes." (R17).
"Accused i Witnesst
Accused:
Witness:
It is not necessary to consider the question as to whether accused's immunity against being a witness against himself under the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution was infringed by these proceedings inasmuch as it is self evident that he.personally and.voluntarily waived same (14 Am#Jur.Criminal Law, sec»l62, p#880; Ann# 64 ALR. 1099l 1 Wharton's Criminal Evidence - 11th Ed - sec#382,p#607,.footnote 16)# In any event, he was positively identified by the witness Fletcher who apprehended him at the scene*
A	_
10# The charge sheet shows that accused is over 21 years of age# He was inducted into service at Fort McClellan, Alabama on 28 January 1943# He had no prior service#
(241)
11.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. ISO errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as approved.
Confinement in a United States Disciplinary 3arracks is authorized (A1V 42).
-T-
1st Ind
2 4 FEB 1944
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.	TO:	Commanding
Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 5^5» U.S. Army.
1, In the case of Private LEMUEL G, POE (34703811), Company B,
49th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 3°i« you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
?• Attention is invited to the designated place of confinement which should be changed to the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven. New York (Cir. #210, Sec.VI, par.2a, 14 September 1943 as amended by Cir. #331, Sec.II, par.2, 21 December 1943)* This may be done in the published general court-martial order.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record of trial in this office is ETO 1360. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1360).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(243)
