#(229)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 970	,
UNI I E D	STATES	),
v,	|
Captain FRANKLIN A. McCARTNET ) (0-3104.06), (Quartermaster • ) Corps.	)
3 0 NOV 1943.
VIII AIR FORCE COMPOSITE COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at * Wilmont House, Dunmurry, Northern Ireland, on 21 October 1943* Sentence:	Dismissal.
- - ■' - - - - - - - 1
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN-BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and. the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
%	I	••
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE: Violation of the '85th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Capt, Franklin A. McCartney,
Gen Depot G-10, was, at Wilmont House, Dunmurry,
Northern Ireland, on or about 10 October 1943* found drunk while on duty as Officer of the Day.
He pleaded not guilty td and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, VIII Air Force Composite Command, approved the sentence and "pursuant to Article of War 50§" directed'that the "execution of the sentence" be "withheld".	The Board 'of Review has treated the
record of trial as if forwarded as directed by Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and pursuant to Article of War 50^-, withheld the execution thereof. ,
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
3* The prosecution's evidence was substantially as follows:
Captain Charles J. Martin, Infantry, Headquarters Commandant of the Northern Ireland Base Section, was on 17 September 1943, Headquarters Commandant of the Northern Ireland District. He identified Ex. A as the roster for Duty Officer for the period from 18 September to 19 October, posted on the officer'A bulletin board at headquarters, Wilmont House (R7). The roster showed accused was'assigned to duty on 10 Octbber 1943*’ The duty hours were from'four o'clock P.M. until the same hour the following afternoon. The roster was. captioned "Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA" (R8), and was signed by Major Wilcox in behalf of Colonel Dierking, then Commanding Officer of the Northern Ireland District.'- There was no other official notice given
(R9).	~	'	-
. Major Frank P. Wilcox, Jr., A.G.D., was on 10 October 1943, Adjutant General of the Northern Ireland Base Command at Wilmont, and prior to that time was Adjutant of the Northern Ireland District at the same location. About 4*00 o’clock P.M., the customary time for the officer of the day to report for duty, witness met Captain McCartney coming up the stairs on 10 October 1943. He was dressed in service uniform' and wearing side arms.
* .. "When I met Captain McCartney on the stairs he stopped me and asked me about reporting. He . asked me if I cared to take his report as new officer of the day. Captain Hensley was not there — he was old officer, of the day — but Captain McCartney had the guard book with him at the time so I said, *1 accept your report} there are no special instructions,1 and he saluted and went on duty" (R12).
About 5*15 p.m., witness saw accused in the bar but did not speak to him. However, about 6:10 p.m.*	*	-
'"Major Gabel came into me in the dining-room and asked me if Captain McCartney wa3 duty ■ officer. . I told him he was and he left and a few minutes later Colonel Andrew came in and said, 'Is Captain McCartney duty officer', and I said, 'yes' and he said, 'I believe he is drunk. I want him relieved, another officer put on duty and put him in arrest of quarters'"
,(102).
Major Wilcox then went into the hall and found accused "leaning against the wall with a few officers grouped around him", ordered Lieutenant Robbins to take accused's side arms, told accused he was under arrest
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(231)
and directed that he be taken to the hospital for examination. He had no conversation with accused but noticed that his speech was very slow.
His eyes and facial expression were unusual and he appeared bewildered.
He was intoxicated (R13). The Ma jor identified Ex.B as Staff Memorandum No.2, Instructions for the officer of the day at Northern Ireland District Headquarters in effect on 10 October 1943* These instructions are dated ( 29 December 1942 and captioned,"Headquarters, Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA" (R14). They are signed by Major Wilcox for Colonel Dierking who was Commanding Officer of the Northern Ireland District at that time. * The proper method of reporting is for the old officer of the day apd the new to report together to the Adjutant General or Chief of Staff, He explained that the old officer of the day reports at the office, hands over the guard book and reports any unusual' occurrences. The new officer of the day reports, receives any special instructions and is given custody of the guard book. He stated he was in his office on 10 October but neither the new or old officer of the day reported there. He was on the stairway en route to his office at 4 o’clock and he denied that, when he met him on the stairs, he told accused "Go to my office —I’ll be right up" (R15). He did not recall whether accused was wearing a raincoat. At the time he saw accused he was returning to his office on the ground floor (R16). On further questioning he said ho was not in his office at 4 o’clock but was there shortly thereafter} that he did not officially relieve the old officer of the day as he did not see him, Accused was hot drunk when he reported as officer of the day on the stairs (R17) and looked quite normal (R18),
Major Francis S. Gabel, Infantry, was Assistant Chief of Administration of Northern Ireland Base Section on 10 October 1943* He testified that on that datel
n*#** at about 5«15 p»m., I came down to the bar and Captain McCartney was standing at the bar wearing a belt and gun. I offerred to buy him a drink and he bought it for me,.
I asked him if he was officer of the day and he said he was and I told him he’d better not drink any more. I came into the lounge and sat there until about six o’clock when I saw Captain McCartney being assisted from the bar by two officers.)' (R19)'»
Accused was then drunk.' He had on a regulation blouse, trousers, a cap with cover and was wearing the gun and web belt of the officer of the day (R19).
Colonel George S. Andrew, General Staff Corps, Headquarters, Northern Ireland Base Section, was on duty as Chief of Staff of that headquarters on 10 October 1943 at Wilmont House. . He testified*
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
nI was in the lounge which is adjacent to the bar and my attention was called to an • officer's' condition.' I; went out into'the hall and saw an officer being conducted through the hall by another officer. I asked him.what his name was and if he was officer of the day. I forget whether or not he gave me his name but he did state that he was officer of 'the day.' He was wearing belt and side arms at the time.
He was obviously drunk, so drunk < that he had to be assisted through the hall by another officer. **■*. As soon as I had definitely established him as officer of the day I directed the Adjutant t6 relieve him and to detail another officer to duty and place Captain McCartney under arrest : in quarters* I later instructed the Adjutant to have him sent to the hospital for observation, (R2l), *** to determine whether or not he was drunk and if not to find out what was wrong with him." (R22).
First Lieutenant Donald L. Robbins, Chemical Warefare Services) Ordnance Section, General Depot G-10, about 5*15 p.m. of 10 October 1943, was in the lounge of headquarters when accused came into the bar and spoke to him. When the dinner bell rang and he went out*in the hall he heard Major Wilcox ask who was next.in line for.officer of the day and when he answered that he was, the Major told him to take over the duties of officer of the day, place accused'under arrest and take him* to the hospital which he did. He took accused's side arms and got the guard book but he did not report officially (R23-25)•.
* / *
Captain James A. Campbell, Medical Corps, lDth Station Hospital . was Medical Officer of the Day on 10 October 1943 at above' hospital and admitted accused that night as a patient for examination and observation.
Re examined accused at 7t15, at 7:40 and at 8:00 that night (R25) and found the pupils of his eyes were sluggish to lightj his speech was -thickened with some looseness of the lips. He walked on a wide base, staggered as he turned'and had difficulty in carrying out commands to walk, halt and turn. There was some .impairment of co-ordination on the mental side.
It was dull and slow. In the opinion of Captain Campbell accused was ' drunk (R26).
4.	Evidence for the defense was in substance as follows:	_	•
It was stipulated between the prosecution and defense that if ■ Kenneth R. Hensley, Captain, Infantry, Assistant T. & S. Officer, Northern Ireland Base Section, were present in court and sworn he would testify in
CONFIDENTIAL
(233)
accordance with his signed statement which was admitted in evidence and marked "Exhibit C". Captain Hensley's statement related that on 10 October 1943 at about 4*00 p.in. he was sitting in his office on the second floor of Wilmont House, Headquarters, Northern Ireland Base Section when accused came in and stated that he was ready to relieve Captain Hensley as Officer of the Day. Captain Hensley asked accused if he had brought the guard book and accused stated that he had and put it down in front of Captain Hensley who was the Officer of the Day. He signed the book and handed it back to accused. Further Captain Hensley stated:
"The published order for the changing of the officer of the day provides that the old officer of the day and the new officer of the day report together to the adjutant at 1600 hours, at which time the old officer of the day is relieved and the New officer of the day takes over the duties of officer of the day. This method of changing the officer of the day has been effect for several months and I have gone through this procedure many times." (R28).
The adjutant's office was on the second-floor of Vfilmont House. Captain Hensley at this time asked accused if he noticed whether the adjutant was in his office. Accused informed Captain Hensley that the adjutant was not. Accused then left the office taking the guard book with him. Captain Hensley never heard more from either accused nor the adjutant nor did he report to .the adjutant terminating his period of-duty as the old officer of the day (R28}»
I *	*	I
Major Frank P. Wilcox, Jri, recalled as a defense witness, identified Ex."D" as the General Order dated 4 October inactivating the Northern Ireland District, signed by him for Colonel Dierking, Commanding Officer of that District (R29), and Ex."E" as the General Order dated 5 October 1943 announcing the opening of the Northern Ireland Base Section which he signed for General Collins. Ex."F" he identified as the General Order announcing that General Collins assumed command of the Northern Ireland Base Section (R30-31)." The military post has been at Wilmont House at all times since 17 September 1943* Captain Martin has been Headquarters Commandant and Post Commander at Wilmont House since prior to 5 October 1943 (R31-32)-. The duty roster, Ex."A", covers a period extending from before the inactivation of the Northern Ireland District until after the activation of the Northern Ireland Base Section (R32).
He testified that it was the custom to appoint Quartermaster officers, as officers of the day and that they served as such (R33)•
Accused was sworn as a witness in his own defense and testified
that he:
confidential•
"*** came to Northern Ireland on 1 September 1942, where I was at Larkfield connected with the Quartermaster Section of Northern Ireland Base Section and then when it was changed to a District,
I came to Wilmont where I was assigned to Depot G-10 where I have been since ***" (R35).-	•
He denied reporting to anybody as officer of the day on 10 October 1943» but stated thatj	-
"I came to Wilmont at the proper time to report as officer of the day. . I started up the stairs and met the Adjutant on the stairs near the bottom. I remarked that
•	I was on my way up to report as new officer of the day.- . The Adjutant threw up his hand, and said, 'O.K., go ahead* •
I walked-up the stairs and waited at the outer entrance to.the Adjutant's office.
. When I saw him on the stairs the Adjutant had something in his hand and I got the
*	impression that he was going down to his room and would be back to receive my report in a few minutes. When he did not return I went to Captain Hensley's office which was on the second floor on the other side of the building, and asked him to sign the guard book. He did so and I told him that I was waiting to report to the Adjutant but that he had not come back.
I am not absolutely positive about what Captain Hensley said but I think he said, '
'When he returns call me*. I went back to the entrance to the Adjutant's office -and waited for quite some time and when he did not come back to his office I came on down and waited at the bar" (R36).
•	' ,	1	-.	*
He waited at the Adjutant's office approximately ten minutes after going there at four o'clock. After leaving the office of Captain Hensley, who was the old officer of the day -(R36), he went back to the entrance of the Adjutant's office where-some enlisted men were laying linoleum, . They had not seen the Adjutant. He denied that he was officially reporting to Major Wilcox on the stairs (R37). After waiting, he went-downstairs to the bar and had-three double drinks between five and six o'clock.
While there Lieutenant Miles said, "Captain, your eyes are showing your drinks. You'd better get out of here and I'll go with you." Out in the
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(235)
hall he met Colonel Andrew who'questioned“him, sent'for MajorWilcdx and directed the Major to inform accused officially that he was relieved as officer of the day and to place him under arrest in quarters. Lieutenant Robbins took his pistol and belt and took accused to the hospital, where ' he stayed the night and was examined (R38). He admitted he wore his service uniform with pistol and web belt but that he had a raincoat on and it would have been impossible for Major Wilcox to have seen the belt and pistol. He stated that he did hot consider himself on duty as officer of the day and denied that he had had any drinks before five ' o'clock that he could remember. When asked if he thought Major Gabel and Colonel Andrew were mistaken when they testified that they asked if he was officer of the day and he said he was, he answered*
"I don't think so. I realized that I was being questioned as to my personal conduct, and as everybody was grouped around and I felt very conspicuous,’ the idea in my mind was to bring the interview to a close. I had expected that Colonel'Andrew would say that I had' better not drink any more. *1 wanted to get' the mob broken up and then come back later and do any explaining that was necessary." (R39).
He had not signed for the guard book and thought the old officer of the day remained, as such until he was relieved. He wa3 waiting until he found Major Wilcox before he signed the book (RAO),
Major Wilcox, recalled a3 a defense witness, identified Form 66 of the 201 file of accused which was admitted in evidence as Ex,G. The entries under "Type of duty" and "Manner of Performance" were read to the court and showed performance of duty by accused in the Quartermaster Corps as excellent and superior. He again stated .that when he saw accused on the steps he "accepted his report as new officer of the day and told him that there were no special instructions" (RA2).
Captain Martin, Headquarters Commandant on 10 October 19A3, recalled as a defense witness, stated that the. Adjutant•s office was being moved at_that time from upstairs but that he had notified no one of the move. He also stated that accused was an excellent officer (RA3-A5).
Corporal Merl Hopkins, "head orderly and bartender" at Wilmont House on 10 October, helped lay linoleum in front of the Adjutant's office upstairs and about four o'clock, saw accused who spoke to him just outside the Adjutant General's office. ■ Accused remained about fifteen minutes. Furniture was in the Adjutant's office but Major Wilcox was not around while accused was there.He was dressed in blouse, pink trousers and hat, but witness did not remember whether he wore a raincoat or side arms. The Adjutant's office was upstairs (R46-A8),
CONFIDENTIAL
(236).
Lieutenant Colonel Harold K. Holden and Captain George Cornelius, both of^Quartermaster Corps, Headquarters Northern Ireland Base Section, who had each known accused for about 4 year, gave evidence of his very good reputation as an officer (R49-50).
I .	‘
First Lieutenant Robbins, recalled as a defense witness, 'related that he received orders from Major Wilcox to take over the duties of Officer of the Day and of telling accused that he was under arrest in. quarters. He took the guard book from accused,' whom he took by the arm
to escort him out because he needed help (R5l).	.
- <
5.	Although the charge sheet fails to designate the branch and unit of accused, his Form 66 from his 201 file definitely shqws him an officer of the. Quartermaster Corps during his entire active commissioned service.
The evidence fairly proves that accused was drunk at about six o’clock on the evening of 10 October 1943• His defense wan in the nature of a confession and avoidance with evidence of his good record as a Quartermaster officer in mitigation. His claims are, first, thaii he was not the duly appointed Officer of the Day, second, that he never assumed the duties of the Officer of the Day on 10 October .1943, and, third, that as a Quartermaster Officer he could not properly be assigned to that duty.
(a)	Exhibit "A", captioned Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, Staff Memorandum, No. 20, dated 17 September 1943, is the Duty Roster for that headquarters covering the period from 18 September to 19 October 1943, In usual form and signed by Major Frank P. Wilcox, Jr., Adjutant, by order of Colonel Dierking, who is shown to have been at that time the district Commanding Officer. This roster lists accused for duty on 10 October 1943. Exhibit "D", captioned and signed like Exhibit "A”, is a General Order dated 4 October 1943, inactivating, by proper authority, Headquarters and Headquarters Detachment, Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA. Exhibit "E" is a General Order dated 5 October 1943, captioned, Headquarters, Northern Ireland Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, signed for Brigadier General Collins by Major-Frank P. Wilcox, Jr., Adjutant General. Exhibit "F" is the General Order dated also 5 October 1943, announcing that General Collins had'assumed command of the Northern Ireland Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, It therefore appears that Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section,
SOS, ETOUSA and Northern Ireland Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA were the same command with the same headquarters in Wilmont House, the same Headquarters Commandant and the same Adjutant. . General Collins, as Base Section Commander had replaced Colonel Dierking as District Commander. The court may take judicial notice that the area covered by each designation was the geographical limits of Northern Ireland. It was in fact at all times one single operating and existing command and the standing orders or details to duty would remain effective until'"changed by the new Commanding General (CM 191631 (1930), Dig.Ops., 1912-1940, sec.427(2), p.290).
- 8 -
CONFIDFNTIAJ
CONFIDENTIAL
(237)
(b)	The claim of accused that he never .assumed the duties of Officer of the Day is untenable. At the proper time he presented himself to the old officer of the day who signed the guard book and turned it over to accused. Accused, in proper dress and side arms reported, informally perhaps, to the Adjutant whom he met on the s t airway near his office and who accepted accused's report and informed him that there wens no special instructions. Accused thereafter informed several officers including headquarters chief of staff that he was the Officer of the Day. Accused was found drunk after A*00 p.m. the time of commencement of his tour of duty. He had, in fact at that time assumed the duties and functions of Officer of the Day (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents - Reprint -p.61A, footnote 57).
(c)	AR- 600-20, Changes No. 5, dated May 3, 19A3, provides that "Chiefs of supply and administration services or officers on duty in the offices of such chiefs, officers of any of the services **** though eligible to command, according to his rank, will not assume command of troops except those of his service or bureau or that in which he is on duty, unless put on duty under orders which specifically so direct, by ^competent authority, but any staff officer, by virtue of his commission, may command ».H enlisted men like other commissioned officers." (Underscoring supplied). Accused although a Quartermaster officer was placed on the duty roster for duly on 10 October 19A3 by competent authority. He manifestly became eligible for duty as Officer of the Day by virtue of the exception contained in the Regulation itself. His contention in this respect is without merit.
6.	’ The charge sheet shows the accused to be A3 years 6 months old.
He enlisted for World War service 23 April 1919 and was honorably discharged 22 April 1922. He entered active duty in the present conflict on 30 June 19A2.
7.	A recommendation for clemency dated 25 October 19A3 asking that execution of the sentence of dismissal be suspended in view of accused*s long record of honorable service and excellence of previous ratings, signed by all the members of the trial court, is attached to the record of trial.
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affooting, the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Am sentence of dismissal is mandatory upon the conviction of an officer 9f being drunk on duty in time of war in violation of Artj
Judge Advocate Advocate
______________ Judge Advocate
CONFIDENTIAL
(238)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
W, Branch Office of TJAG., with ETOUSA. 3 0 NOV ^9 A3	TO: Commanding
General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.
1.	In the case of Captain FRANKLIN. A. McCARTNEI (0-310406), General Depot G-10, (Quartermaster Corps), Northern Ireland Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50k you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2,	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 970. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 970).
/ ;
I.	C. McNEH.
I Brigadier General, United States Army, .J/, . Assistant Judge Advocate General. ^
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMD 26, ETO, 3 Bee. 1943)
#(239)
