#(23)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD CP REVIEW EEO 873
UNITED STATES )
v.	)
First Lieutenant LEO 0. BLOOM j (0-523908), Dental Corps,	)
Attached to 364th Engineer	)
Regiment, (GS). ’	)
2 7 0Cri943
EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES ' OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER CP OPERATIONS,
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Kettering, Northamptonshire, Bigland 17 September 1943, Sentence! To be dismissed the service, *
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1,	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its ’ holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in dharge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations .
2,	Accused was 'tried upon the following charges and specificationsI
«
CHARGE 11 Violation of the 95th Article of War,
(Finding of not guilty) • '
Specification It (Finding of not guilty).
Specification 2t (Finding of not guilty).
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification 1. In that 1st. Lieutenant Leo 0,
Bloom, Medical Detachment, 364th Engineer Regiment, was, at Proteus Camp, Ollertcn, Nottinghamshire, England, on or about 29th August 1943} drunk and disorderly.
Specification 2. In that 1st. Lieutenant Leo 0."
Bloom, Medical Detachment, 364th Engineer Regiment, was, at Proteus Camp, Ollertan, Notting- ' hamshire, England, an or about 30th August 1943* drunk and disorderly.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(2A)	CONFJDhNTIAL
CHARGE III* Violation of the 6lst. Article of War*
Specification In that 1st. Lieutenant Leo. 0.
Bloom, Medical Detachment, 364th Engineer Regiment, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his station at the 30th General Hospital,
Mansfield,' Nottinghamshire,' England, from about 1225 hours, 30th August, 1943 to'about 1535 hours 30th August,- 1943*	.	*
He pleaded not guilty to all charges and to the specifications thereunder.
He was found not guilty of Charge I and of its specifications, guilty of Specification 1, Charge II except the words "and disorderly", of the excepted words not guilty, guilty of Specification 2, Charge II and of Charge II, and guilty of Charge III and of the Speclficatibn thereunder.
No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer,-Eastern Base Section, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, ~ European'Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence .and pursuant to Article of War 50withheld the order-directing the execution thereof.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows that about 8t30 p*m. 29 August (1943) Second Lieutenant Lyle Smith and First Lieutenant Meyer Rashbaum, both of the 364th Engineer Regiment together with a Lieutenant Hoffman went to the officers* day-room at Proteus Car?), Qllerton, Nottinghamshire, England (R7-8,11-12).	Lieutenant Rashbaum had a quart of rum (R8,12). Accused
was present with other officers, reading. When the party sat down near the bar ***** the others came over" (R12). Lieutenant Smith mixed drinks of rum and "Pepsicola" and the quart of JJLquor was consumed in about two hours (R8,12), each officer having four drinks (R8,10,12). Accused had his prorated share (R9). During this period he remained seated and had little to say. . He was not observed to have any drinks other than those from* the bottle (R8,10,12-13).	When the party began, he appeared sober and did not
smell of liquor (Rll,13). Lieutenant Rashbaum testified that he left the day-room at 10*^0 p.m., that accused then appeared to be normal, that he had not been disorderly and that "There was never any suspicion in my mind that he was drinking too much" (R12-13).
At 10i30 p.m. Lieutenant Smith extinguished the lights, went to the outer door with accused and then proceeded to his barracks (R8). Upon seeing a light in the latrine he returned to the day-room where he found accused leaning against the wall drooling at the mouth, with his head hunched forward and hanging down, and his arms loose. "Some, of the substance was on his trousers". Lieutenant Smith attempted to assist him to his quarters (R9) but he was unable to walk and had to be partly carried (R10), so he left to get Lieutenant Hoffman and when they returned accused was "sliding against the wall". The two officers took him to his quarters,
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(25)
removed his shoes and put him to bed* He was muttering and Lieutenant Smith could not mate any "sense out of what he was Baying" (R9). He offered no violence and was not disorderly (Rll). Lieutenant Smith testified that in his opinion accused was sick* . "I can't imagine that he was drunk, because no-one else was" (R9,ll).
. Major John E. Eller son, attached 364-th Engineer Regiment, was billeted in a Nissen hut. (No* 95) id the regimental area. Asked if he had seen accused on the night of 29 August, he testified "I han't remember the. exact night other than by my statement. If that was the 29th it is correct" (R19-20). About IOiOO p»m., after Major Eilerson had retired Lieutenants Hoffman and Smith entered. One officer carried accused by the "top end" and the other carried him by his legs* He appeared, to be grossly, drunk and was placed in bed. He spoke "rather incoherently", lay in bed "mumbling away." and "rolled and wriggled around". After observing him for about, an hour, Major Eilerson fell asleep (R20,22-23). During the night he heard a commotion as though someone urinated against the jrall. and saw & lot of human excretion on the floor near his bed (R20). About midnight he awakened to hear other officers advise accused to go to bed as he was walking about (R22).
• * *
About 11*30 p*m«, 29 August Captain Harold. W. Grundy, attached 364-th Engineer Regiment, returned to hut No. 95 where he was billeted and retired. Accused was in bed and "seemed normally asleep" (R13-14->19). Between 4-4»30 a.m., 30 August Captain Grundy was awakened by accused who bumped against his bed (R14-,l6). "He was rubbing his stomach as if in pain and Buffering from an accumulation of gas" (R16). He .expelled gas (R15,13), went to the rear door of the hut which was'permanently locked (R14,16) and asted "How do you get out of here?" (R15,17). He then went to the opposite end of the. room where a* Captain Miner awakened and asked" who was there. .Accused said "Give me a hand". When the captain told him to go to bed, he "apparently" stumbled and fell on the floor where he remained for a short time and then went to bed (R15»18-19). When Captain_ Grundy arose at 6*00 a.m. the following morning (30 August), he observed human excreta on the floor at approximately the same, location where accused had been previously rubbing his stomach and had expelled the gas (R15-16). The excreta was spread over an area two or three feet square (R19).
Accused also arose at 6*00 a.m. and appeared to Captain Grundy to be slightly intoxicated although he could not say whether he was drunk. His speech was thick when he asked the captain for a cigarette. He walked normally (R15-16), Some of his clothing was spread on the floor (R18),
At 7*00 a.m. (.30 August) Major Eilerson saw accused standing by his bed, mumbling. He appeared to be in a dazed condition and it was the major's opipion that he was drunk at that time (R2l). His clothing was scattered throughout an area of about 20 feet (R20).
» •
At 6*00 a.m. (30 August) Major James MajarakLs, regimental surgeon and accused's superior officer noticed that he was not present at
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
calisthenics. He later found him in his hut (R24). Accused said that he had missed calisthenics because he was sick. His speech was incoherent and his walk and gait ware unsteady (1125,33) • As he began to put on some clothes which were, lying about his locker, he removed a bottle from the locker and took a drink. Major Kajarakia then took him to the 30th General Hospital for further diagnosis (R25), where they arrived at about 8*00 a.ra. (R34) • On the way accused was more exuberant and loquacious than t ' usual, but spoke "very friendly *** and very intelligently". (R25,32).
Major Majarakis was unable to state definitely whether he was or wan. not sober (R33).	...
On 30 August Major Henry B, Kirkland, Medical Corps was in charge, of the officers' medical ward, 30th General Hospital. There, in the late morning he saw accused who had just been admitted and who stated that he had been drinking the night before (R27-28,35). He. was in. a very unreasonable frame of mind and resentful at having been brought to the hospital against hi3 will.. He refused to remove £da clpthes and to retire and "showed no disposition to act normally". He talked coherently but "did not show the continuity of. thought and answer that one would expect" (R28-29,35). . Major Kirkland ordered him to remain in the ward and stated that if he did not he would be considered as absent without, leave. Accused appeared to understand the order, and inquired as to the consequences should he break the restriction. Shortly after 12*30, the major was called and proceeded to check accused's whereabouts. He was not in the ward .(K28~29, 34). He next saw him about 3*30 p.m. on the same day when he wa3 brought to the hospital by a captain of the military police. . He was dazed, and his breath smelled very definitely of alcohol. Hie was "less oriented", his speech was slurred and rambling and his gait was unsteady. When instructed to go to bed, he did so and went- to sleep almost immediately (R28-29).
About 6*00 p.m., 30 August Captain Douglas McG. Kelly, Medical . Corps, chief of the neuro-psychiatric section, 30th General .Hospital saw accused. He was acutely intoxicated and was in bed in a stuporous st.ate.
His breath smelled of alcohol and he had "a gross tr.emor" (R26-27).
4.	For the defense, accused testified that he was in his hut at 5*30 p.m. 29 August and that he had two drinks before dinner. "After mess" he went to the day-room and Lieutenants Hoffman, Smith and Rashbaum came in, each with a quart of rum. "J had quite a few drinks, I .don't know how many. From then on I don't remember' anything except when I was in hospital". He did have flashes of memory "in between". He did not recall being taken home on the night of 29 August, or the trip with Major Majarakis to the hospital. He remembered talking with Major Kirkland but could not recall the conversation, n6r did he remeiriber "being warped or ptit under arrest that day ***". He recalled his admission to the hospital as a .patient and "faintly" remembered leaving the .hospital, "walking in Mansfield and deciding to get a bus, and then the Provost Marshall came." He did not
-4-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(27)
remember having anything to drink in Mansfield. He did not have money to buy any drinks because he counted his money in the hospital and had just a few pence. He removed his shorts and threw them away because they "were messed" (R30-32).	,	,
•	*	•	i
5.	; Recalled as a witness by the court, Captain Kelly testified that accused remained under his observation for some days. The captain's opinion concerning his case was "Alcoholism acute, severealcoholism chronic, moderately severe; constitutional psychopathic state, inadequate personality" (R35). The court then asked "What is the prognosis?" After the court overruled an objection by the prosecution on behalf of accused. Captain Kelly testified "The prognosis is poor. Treatment is required for a considerable length of time in the problem of chronic alcoholism, and can never be remedied at this stage". He replied in the affirmative to the court's question as to whether in his opinion the actions of accused might be the result of his type of constitutional inadequacy (R36).
6.	The reviews of the staff judge advocate, Eastern Base Section,
SOS, ETOHSA, and the assistant theater judge advocate, ETODSA contain several comments regarding irregularities appearing in the record of trial, Further comment thereon is unnecessary.
‘ '■	'	• ‘	.	'	• I	-	-	'	.
7. ’ Before any evidence had been presented the defense moved "that a1 verdict be directed by ‘the court of not guilty" of Charge I and cf the specifications thereunder on the ground that "the specifications *** are insufficient, even if proven, to support a violation of the 95th Article of War". The court denied the motion (R7). The specifications were in proper form. As the prosecution had not then been afforded the opportunity to present any evidence whatsoever pertaining to the offenses alleged, the motion by the defense was obviously premature.
8.	At the conclusion of the prosecution's case the defense moved that the- court "direct a* verdict of not guilty" of Charge I and of the specifications thereunder, and of the Specification of Charge III an the ground that the evidenbe presented was not legally sufficient to support a finding of guilty. The court denied the motions (R29-30). Sufficient and substantial* evidence as to accused's guilt' of the offenses alleged had then been presentfed'by the prosecution to warrant the court's action in denying the motions and in considering such evidence when reaching its* ultimate findings.
*
9.	With reference to Specification 1 of Charge II (drunkenness at Proteus Camp on or about 29 August 19A3)» the evidence, shows- that after drinking run and "Pepsicola" accused was found in the officers' latrine leaning against the wall drooling at the mouth, with his head hanging down and his arms loose. It was necessary for two officers to carry him bodily to his quarters and to put him to bed. He spoke incoherently, lay in bed "mumbling away" and "rolled and wriggled around" • One could not make any "sense out of what he was saying". • In Major Ellerson's opinion he was
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
OONFIRENTIAl.
grossly drunk. There was however, no evidence that accused was disorderly.
With respect to Specification 2 of Charge II (being drunk and disorderly at Proteus Camp 30 August 194-3), in the early morning hours of the date alleged accused was wandering around in his billet asking "How do you get out of here?" He bumped into Captain Grundy's cot, expelled gas and awakened three officers who were sleeping in the hut. There was substantial evidence that he defecated on the floor of the billet. He admitted throwing away his shorts because they were "messed". He asked an officer to give him a hand and then stumbled and fell on the floor. Between 6-7:00 a.m. the same morning some of his clothing was found spread over the floor. He was in a dazed condition, his speech was thick and incoherent and his walk and gait were unsteady. In the opinion of Major Eilerson he was drunk. He appeared slightly intoxicated to Captain Grundy. Before leaving for the hospital he took a drink from a bottle which was in his locker.
The evidence as to the drunkenness on 29-30 August was corroborated by accused himself who testified that after having "quite a few drinks" in the day-room, aside from flashes of memory "in between" he remembered nothing except when he was in the hospital.
The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty with respect to Charge II and its specifications.
10.	During the late morning of 30 August accused was ordered by the officer in charge to remain in the officers' medical ward of the 30th General Hospital, and told that if he did not he would be considered as absent without leave. The fact that he understood the order was evidenced by his inquiry as to the consequences of breaking the restriction. Accused was not in the ward shortly after 12:30 p.m. He was next seen by the officer in charge about 300 p.m. when he was brought to the hospital by the military police. He "faintly" remembered leaving the hospital and going to Mansfield. The evidence is legally sufficient to establish the finding that accused was guilty of absence without leave as alleged (Charge III and Specification thereunder).
i
11.	The accused is 4-5 years of age, and served as a private from 10 October 1942 to 8 June 1943 on which date he was commissioned. He served in the "first world war" for two and a half months.
12.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. Ho errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(29)
is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Dismissal is authorized upon conviction of violation of Articles of War 61 and 96.
i
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 27 OCT 1943 TO* Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S, Army.
,1. In the case of First Lieutenant LEO 0. BLOOM (0-523908), Dental Corps, attached to 364th Engineer Regiment ((E) attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5o£, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence,
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 873. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orderi (ETO 873).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 23, ETO, 1 Nov 1943)
#(31)
