#(67)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
2S J JW 945
29TH INFANTRY DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at APO 29, 20 May 1943. Sentence:	Dismissal,
total forfeitures and confinement for one year* Disciplinary Training Center No. 1, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England*
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations,
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	61st Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	2nd	Lt.	0. D. EDUARDS,
Co/'E", 115th Infantry, did, in the vicinity of Tidworth, England on or about 4 May 1943, without proper leave, go from the appointed place for training, after having repaired thereto for the performance of said duty.
Specification 2:	In	that	2nd	Lt.	0. D. EDWARDS,
Co^'E", 115th Infantry, did, at Tidworth, England, on or about 11 May 1943, fail to repair at the fixed time to the properly appointed place for training.
- 1 -
Board of Review*
ETO 515.
UNITED STATES v.
Second Lieutenant 0. D. EDWARDS, (0-1291964), 115th Infantry.
(68)
ADDITIONAL CHARGES:
CHARGE I:	Violation of the 64-th Article of War*
Specification: (Disapproved by confirming authority),
CHARGE II: Violation of the 54th Article of War, Specification: (Nolle prossed by appointing authority),
CHARGE III: Violation of the 96th Article.of War,
Specification 1: In that, 2nd Lt. 0, D, Edwards,
Company E, 115th Infantry, did, at the Assays Officers1 Lounge, Tidworth, England, on or about 15 May 1943, wrongfully strike, Captain Grat B,
Hankins, 115th Infantry, in the face with his fist.
Specification 2: (Nolle prossed by appointing authority).
By direction of the appointing authority a nolle prosequi was entered to the Specification of Additional Charge II and to Additional Charge II and to Specification 2 of Additional Charge III. Accused pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of all the remaining Charges and Specifications. Evidence of one previous conviction for wrongfully refusing to give his name to military police and for violation of security regulations by writing letters criticising our Allies, was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for seven years. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General of the 29th Division, approved "only so much of the sentence as provides for dismissal, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement for five years" and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, disapproved the findings of guilty of Additional Charge I and its. Specification, confirmed the sentence but reduced the confinement to one year, designated the Disciplinary Training Center No. 1, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, as the place of confinement, withheld the order directing the execution thereof and forwarded the record pursuant to Article of War 50^-.
3.. The evidence for the prosecution is substantially as follows: Captain William B. Sullivan, commanding officer of Company Er 115th Infantry, testified that on the night of May 3-4, his company, in which accused was a platoon leader, was on combat team exercises with the regiment, leaving about 9:00 P.M. Accused was on duty and left with the company (R.ll), Witness did not see accused during the night end ctvli not find him in the morning; he found the platoon but accused was not with it. About 3*00 in the afternoon (4 May 1943)
- 2 -
nr,m — i n r iiT!* t
I i .	.	I'd
w V •
(69)
when witness returned, he fotind accused in his quarters who said he had become ill in the morning and had to return home (R.12,18).
He said his stomach was upset and he had lost his breakfast but had not seen a doctor. Prior to this time (4 May 1943) witness had specifically instructed accused about dropping out when he was supposed to be sick and told him that only a surgeon could excuse him because of sickness (R.13). Later accused told witness another story. He said "He had been going up with the company to the bivouac area, was walking along and there was a 3/4 ton truck which he thought was going to the same place and he said he got on it and fell asleep and that the truck and our company separated and he later found himself at the Regimental command post, that he had tried to find our company and that no one seemed to know where it was ***** so he came hqme" (R.14). Witness did not remember accused saying in the conversation anything about being sick.
Accused was on duty on May 11th when the company was doing garrison training but witness did not see him with the company all day. About 10*30 AM., 11 May 1943, witness went to accused’s quarters where he found him in bed asleep and about noon he returned with Lieutenant-Colonel Warfield, the Battalion commander, to whom accused admitted he had been absent from drill that morning, that "when he awakened that morning he was ill and he told Lieutenant Miller he was not coming to drill because he was ill" and when Colonel Warfield said accused could be tried for AWOL accused said "well go ahead and try me or words to that effect" (R.15). Accused admitted he had not been to a doctor (R.16).
Second Lieutenant Vincent D, O'Toole, a room-mate of accused, testified that he saw accused at 8 o’clock the morning of May 4th during the time the company was out on a problem (R.20), Accused came in their room, undressed and went to bed. On May 11th they were awakened by the orderly about seven o'clock; accused did not get up and at 7*45 he was again awakened and said "tell the Captain I am sick" (R,21,22,23).	About 12*45 that day after the mid-day meal was finished,
accused pame to the officers' mess and wanted something to eat (R.21),
Lieutenant Colonel William E, Warfield testified he found accused in his quarters partly dressed on the morning of May 11th and accused said he had not got up for duty that morning because he had felt sick. Witness told him that he had been reported by his Captain as "ducking duty" (R.25), and when told he could be tried for AWOL, accused replied that AWOL could not be proved for that morning (R.26). Witness ordered accused to have an examination at the infirmary and "for them to make a report to me". He learned that accused had gone to the infirmary but witness received no report from the doctor or from accused (R.25,27).
- 3 -
V/ yJ ■'	’	\j	w
First Lieutenant Richard A. Donnelly, second in command of Company E, 115th Infantry, testified that he was with the company all day May 11th but accused was not present (R.29).
Second Lieutenant Herman Miller, a room-mate of accused, testified that he played cards with accused till after 3 o'clock in the morning of May 11th. Accused was not present with his platoon during that day (R.30). When witness arose that morning accused awoke and said he was sick and to tell Captain Sullivan (R.31).
Captain James S. Morris, 115th Infantry, testified concerning the dance given by the 115th Infantry officers on the night of Kay 15th. There were lady guests, mostly British, present. While witness was talking to a lady, accused came in with his hat on the back of his head (R.34) and went to the bar. After several minutes witness went oyer to accused who was standing with both feet on the rail and asked him to remove his hat as ladies were present but accused, who had been drinking, answered that he was leaving as soon as he got a drink. Deciding accused was in no condition to argue with, witness walked away when hearing a commotion he turned around and saw some officers holding accused and at the same time some others trying to quiet Captain Hankins. Colonel Smith told accused to leave (R.35,43) and there was quite a bit of argument. Accused seemed to be in quite a temper, but walked over to the bar and very nonchalantly picked up his glass and drank before leaving. While he was drinking Colonel Smith again told him to leave. Accused started towards Captain Hankins instead of the door and a couple of lieutenants took hold of him and escorted him from the room (R.39,44). The disturbance had drawn the attention of everyone in the room (R.36), This was around 12 o'clock mid-night (R.39)•
Captain Grat B. Hankins, 115th Infantry, testified that he was at the dance the night of May 15th. He approached the barj accused and Captain Morris were standing there and witness could tell by accused's expression and tone of voice that he "was somewhat disrespectful to Captain Morris". He turned to Lieutenant Edwards and said "why don't you quiet down you are acting like a young pup" (R.46,49). As he turned back towards the bar he "felt Lieutenant Edwards fist glance off the point of my chin, a poorly aimed blow not very effective" (R.46,50). Accused attempted to strike him again (R.46,50), but he was restrained by Lieutenant McDonough (R.46).
This occurred between 11:30 P.M., and midnight (R.47).
Lieutenant Colonel Louis G. Smith, executive officer of the 115th Infantry, testified that he attended the dance in the officers' lounge the night of May 15th. About midnight while there was quite a number of officers and ladies present and while talking to several
- 4 ••
(71)
officers with his back to the bar, he heard the sound of two blows being struck and on turning around saw accused by the fireplace being restrained by Lieutenant McDonough and another officer. Accused was struggling to get away and not knowing what had happened, witness told accused to quiet down and leave the room (R.55). Accused said something to the effect that "he can't call me a pup" (R.56,58).
First Lieutenant Raymond R. McDonough, 115th Infantry, testified that he was at the officers' party on the night of May 15th (R.62) when he saw a commotion at the bar about midnight (R.66) and accused "raise his hands to someone". Witness told him tp quiet down before he got thrown out and accused made the remarks "the bastard called me a pup". Witness turned around and saw the officer in question was Captain Hankins (R.63). He did not see any blow struck (r,6A). Neither Captain Morris nor Captain Hankins were drinking much (R.66).
Second Lieutenant Walter J. Parker, 115th Infantry, testified he was present at the officers' party when the altercation involving the accused took place. He had been sitting at a table and as he went to the bar to order drinks, Captain Hankins passed in front of him.
There was a scuffle. Captain Hankihs backed into him and he heard accused say "he called me a pup". He did not see any blows struck
(R.68,69).
A. The evidence for the defense is substantially as follows: Sergeant Charles E. Merrick, 115th Infantry, testified that his company went out on a problem the night of May 3-A» As mess sergeant his duty was to prepare the meal in camp and load it on a truck for the field (R.71). At about At 30 or 5:00 A.M., accused came up and got a cup of coffee. He later returned about 7:30 and asked to come back in the truck with witness and rode in getting off at the mess hall (R.73).
Sergeant Charles Creighton, Company E, 115th Infantry, testified that he was with his outfit when it pulled out about 9:30 P.M., on the evening of May 3rd. After the second break between 11 and 11:30 P.M., (R.76) accused called for him to come forward and take over the platoon, "He just dropped out and we went on with the march" (R.77).
Private First Class Wilfred F. Sullivan, 115th Infantry, testified that he drove a jeep on the problem the night of Kay 3rd.
The truck would pass the troops who were marching and would then be passed by the troop (R.78). He saw accused who asked if there was room in the jeep for him and got in the back seat and stayed there until about the time the command post was reached (R.79) which witness told him was as far as he was going. It was about 11 o'clock, dark and he had been riding about an hour in the jeep (R.80).
Captain Louis M. Silversteln, M.C., testified that he saw accused at the 115th Infirmary on the morning of May 11th and he complained of a pain in his chest. On examination witness could find nothing wrong and advised accused to have an x-ray taken which x-ray
- 5
(72)	' CONFIDENTIAL
showed negative, heart normal (R.81). There was nothing wrong with accused (R,82).
Private Carlos G. Rush testified that he was the bartender at the officers* dance when late in the evening there was a little trouble among a few of the officers. Accused was arguing with Captain Morris when Captain Hankins stepped up and said something and accused took a swing at him striking him on the side of the face. Lieutenant McDonough separated them (R.84).
Private Nicholas Peter Vittacallona was also a bar tender at the officers* dance. He testified thht between 11:30 and 12 o'clock P.M., accused came up to order a drink and he turned around and said to Captain Hankins, "What did you call me", so Captain Hankins replied "a pup p-u-p if you want to do anything about it step outside" (R.88). Accused stepped back and Struck him once (R.89,9l) when some officers grabbed them both (R.89). There was a lot of drinking going on (R.91).
Lieutenant O'Toole was recalled as a witness for the defense and testified he noticed accused and Captain Hankins struggling; that Captains Hankins and Morris were drunk and that he saw Captain Hankins spill a glass of whiskey on the dress of one of the lady guests (R.97, 106,133). He did not see a blow struck by accused (R.105).
The accused, at his own request, was sworn and testified in substance that, with his company, he started out on a C.T. problem about 9:00 P.M., the night of 3 May 1943. He had had no rest on a 48 hour pass just completed and was feeling badly. After marching some time, he turned his platoon over to his sergeant (Creighton) as Ms feet were hurting and his head ached. He then climbed into a jeep and lay down (R.108). He got out when the jeep stopped, failed to find his battalion and finally secured a ride back to Ms quarters, arriving about 8:00 A.M., A May 1943 and went to bed (R.lll). Around 2:00 P.M., the same day accused was at the orderlies* room when the troops returned. The Captain asked him where he had been and he "told him, to make a long story short, that I had taken sick that morning and come in" (R.112).
Around 3:00 A.M., 11 May 1943, accused finished a poker game and with Lieutenant Miller "went over to our quarters to grab a few winks". They laid down on top of the bed without undressing and when awakened at 7:00 A.M., he told Miller he was not going out with the company, that his chest hurt and he was feeling punk and to tell Captain Sullivan he was 3ick. He then undressed and went to bed. He got up at noon, ate lunch and was straightening up his quarters when Colonel Warfield and Captain Sullivan came in and asked why he had not turned out drill. When accused told them he was sick and Ms chest was hurting, Captain Sullivan observed that only a surgeon could excuse one from drill (R.113). Colonel Warfield ordered him to report immediately to the infirmary but there and at the hospital where a
- 6 -
(73)
confidential
chest x-ray was taken, nothing could be found wrong with accused
(R.1U).
At the dance the night of 15 May 1943, he had several drinks and dances, got his hat and went back in to bid his friends good-night and was invited to the bar for a drink. As to what happened on this occasion, he testified:	"I	imagine	1	put my hat on just more or les3
to hold it". While waiting for the drink:
«**** x felt something nudging me in the back and I turned around to see who it was and it was Captain Morris, at the time I didn't know him, he said to me, soldier, in a surly manner, he was drunk, I could see he was drunk, don't you think you ought to take your hat off inside,
I said I am leaving in a few minutes, he said, while you are in here you can take it off, I was getting mad- at his expression, he made an attempt to grab my hat and when he did he fell on me, he was pretty well lit and I pushed him back, he 3aid come outside * * *1111 (R.115) ♦
"Captain Hankins was standing about a foot from me, Captain Morris was standing immediately in front of me. Captain Hankins stepped in and pushed Captain Morris back and Captain Morris made another lunge for my hat and missed it and I took my hat off and laid it on the bar, Nich said here is your drink sir and I reached to get it when I happened to think of what he called me and I asked him, I said X am sorry, do you mind repeating what you said, he then said, I called you a pup p-u-p, a young pup is there anything you want to do about it, if you do step outside right now when he did that I lost ray temper and started swinging, I didn't hit him but once, we were taken apart, Lieutenant Parker, I think it was Lieutenant Parker grabbed Captain Hankins and was holding him, Lieutenant McDonough was holding me and he said damn you can't hit my skipper and I said he can't call me a pup and get away with it, he said for Christ's sake calm down or you will get in trouble." (R.115-116).
He did not know he had his hat on when he walked in but did not remove it when Captain Morris reminded him because "of the manner in which he said it" (R.118). He lost his temper "and it set me out of my head,
I couldn't see" (R.124),

5* On rebuttal the prosecution presented*
Lieutenant Colonel Smith who stated that Captain Hankins was sober at the time of the altercation (R.125»126,127)j Captain Grat B. Hankins who denied he had spilled a glass of whiskey on a lady's dress (R.129) or that he invited accused outside (R.13l)j and Captain James
S.	Morris, who admitted he was mad when accused refused to remove his hat on request, but denied any talk of going outside to settle differences with accused (R.132).
6*	(a) - There is substantial evidence that accused's duty
assignment on the night of 3-4 May 1943, was as a platoon leader in Company E, 115th Infantry, engaged in a regimental combat team exercise. He reported and began such duty but left his platoon without authority and returned to camp,
*
The duty of accused on 11 May 1943 was with Ms company wMch was that day doing garrison training. He played cards till after 3*00 A.M., of 11 May, then returned to Ms quarters and slept till noon claiming he was sick, wMch was disproved. He was not present with Ms company during the day.
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty of both Specifications and of the Charge,
(b)	- As to Specification 1 of Additional Charge HI, accused admits striking the blow, as charged, but attempts to excuse Ms action by saying he lost Ms temper. In the opiMon of-the Board of Review, the evidence amply supports the court's findings of guilty of Additional Charge III and its Specification,
7,	As noted by the Staff Judge Advocate in Ms review, the defense challenged for cause Colonel Philip S. Wood, a former commanding officer of accused who had some knowledge of accused's prior service, and Major John A, Metcalfe who had heard some of the charges discussed and knew some of the material facts but had formed no opinion as to accused's guilt. Both challenges were made to and considered by the court at the same time. The court sustained the challenge as to Colonel Wood but overruled the challenge as to Major Metcalfe, The record is silent as to whether these officers withdrew when the court closed to consider the challenges, or, if they remained, what, if any, part they took in the closed session,
"The challenged member will take no part as such in the hearings, deliberations and voting upon a challenge against him. If a challenge is sustained, the challenged member will withdraw, otherwise he will resume Ms seat," (1928 U.C.M., par.58£ p.47).
- 8 -
(75)
Ou.
. ^
"Upon a clearing or deliberation, the challenged member usually and properly withdraws from the court, that is to say, does not remain with it: if however he stays, he takes no part in the discussion or decision* His remaining cannot indeed affect the validity of the proceedings, but his withdrawal is desirable as promoting freedom of discussion and may properly be requested by the court." (WJLnthrop's Military Law & Precedents, 1920 reprint, p.211-212).
The presence of challenged officers at the deliberations on the challenges by the Court in closed session is not prohibited, either by law or regulation. There is nothing disclosed by the record of trial herein to indicate that the presence of the challenged members, if they were present during the closed session of the court, affected the validity of the trial or prejudiced'any substantial righ of accused*
"***• Challenges ***** Th^6ourt shall determine the relevancy and validity thereof, and shall not receive a challenge to more than one member at a time ****■". (Article of War 18).
"Irregularities.- The proceedings of a court-martial shall not be held invalid, nor the findings or sentence disapproved in any case on the ground of improper admission or rejection of evidence or for any error as to any matter of pleading or procedure unless in the opinion of the reviewing or confirming authority, after an examination of the entire proceedings, it shall appear that the error complained of has injuriously affected the substantial rights of the accused ****".
(Article of War 37).
Reference is made to the construction placed upon the sentence; "The court ♦*** shall not receive a challenge to more than one member at a time" contained in the 88th Article of War (1874) by Winthrop's Military Law aid Precedents (2nd Ed.) sec.308, p.207) and also to the citation from Simmons in foot-note 20 supporting the text. Without determining whether Winthrop's comments should be applied to the same sentence as it now appears in the present 18th Article of War, the Board of Review is of the opinion that accused suffered no prejudice from the action of the Court in entertaining and passing upon the double challenge in this instance. The Trial Judge Advocate particularly called Defense Counsel's attention to the fact that he had a right to challenge Major Metcalfe peremptorily (R.6), but the defense stated that it did not desire to exercise such a challenge. Under such circumstances the violation of the directory provision of Article of War 13 forbidding the court to receive a challenge to more than one member at a time, did
- 9 -
•TivpnrtvTiM
* r i'.r,jT
not injuriously affect the substantial rights of the accused. (AW 37, supra).
8.	Over timely objection of the defense, the court permitted the
cross-examination of the accused to go into and establish a prior discharge from the United States Navy as undesirable, the exclusion of accused from other parties and particular prior derelictions and happenings to S.C C	d (Rt120-122) not including offensesfbr which he
had been tried and convicted by a court-martial. The Law Member apparently took the view that this line of questioning was admissible to shew accused's bad reputation for veracity and credibility. "If the accused takes the stand as a witness, his reputation for truth and veracity may be shown". (M.C.M., par.112b, p.112). "Generally speaking the same rule3 are applicable in this regard asspply in the case of other witnesses". (70 C.J., sec.1035, p.822; sec.990, p.793)» Impeachment for general lack of veracity of a witness must be limited to evidence of general reputation for truth or veracity in the community in which accused lives or pursues his ordinary business (1928	par,124b, p.133 ; 70 C.J., sec.1039, p.826, footnote 95j
Sec. 104.0, p.828, footnotes 6 and 7). Subject to exceptions not applicable to this case, the basic rule is that the prosecution may
not cross-examine the witness as to particular former acts of misconduct not relevant to the issue or involved in the principal controversy or brought out on direct examination (70 C.J., sec.1094-, p.879, footnote 21, and p,88p). The allowance by the court of the cross-examination of accused as to former acts of misconduct was therefore erroneous.
However, the findings of guilty of the Charges herein are fully sustained by the record. The prejudice created could therefore extend only to the severity of the punishment imposed, to correct which the confirming authority has mitigated the sentence given.
9. The court imposed a sentence of "to be dismissed the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to b8 confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for seven years". The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 29th Infantry Division, approved only so much of the sentence as provided for dismissal, total forfeitures and "confinement for five (5) years", omitting the words "at hard labor". The confirming authority, the Commanding General of the ETOUSA, confirmed the sentence as approved but reduced the confinement to one year.
Article of War 37, provides among other things:
- 10 -
*J w . : .
(77)
. Ji.fi» *r -
•’That the omission of the/'hard labor* in any sentence of a court-martial adjudging imprisonment or confinement shall not be construed as depriving the authorities executing such sentence of imprisonment or confinement of the power to require hard labor as a part of the punishment in any case where it is authorized by the Executive Order prescribing maximum punishments”.
The Table of Maximum Punishments authorizes confinement at hard labor as a proper punishment for absence from duty in violation of Article of War 61, and for assault and battery in violation of Article of War 96 (1928	par.l94£,	p.97). Although the Table does not
apply to sentences of commissioned officers, hard labor is authorized for officers as well as for enlisted men. Military law does not contemplate punishment by confinement without hard labor (M.C.M., par.l03i, p.95)•	A fair and reasonable interpretation of the actions
by both the reviewing and confirming authorities is that each of them intended to reduce the time or period of confinement without altering the remainder of the sentence of the court. But in any event, hard labor may be required.
10,	The accused is 23 years old. He was commissioned a Second Lieutenant, AUS, 29 August 1942 at Fort Benning, Georgia; assigned to 17th Infantry, 29th Division, 5 September 1942 and assigned to the 115th Infantry, 29th Division, 22 December 1942.
11.	The court was legally constituted. No errors affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial except as mentioned herein. For the reasons hereinbefore stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty of the Charge and of the Specifications thereunder and of Additional Charge III, Specification 1 thereunder, and the sentence.
Advocate
Advocate
Advocate
- 11 -
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. Z 9 JUH l945 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Second Lieutenant 0. D. EDWARDS (0-1291964)# Company "En, 115th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved* Under the provisions of Article of War 50^, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence*
2,	When copJ.es of the published order are forwarded to this
office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 515* For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:	(ETO 515)*
itant Judge Advocate General,
Incl:
Holding of Board of Review,
(Sentence as previously modified ordered executed GCRO 11, ETO, 3 Jul 1943)
#(79)
