#(137)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871 ' *
BOARD OF REVIEW	
ETO 902 * * *	19 NOV 1943
UNITED STATES )'  )  v. )  )  Private EUGEIffi G-. BARRETO ) (342493^8), and Private ) GEORGE M. COLETTO (32341005), ) both of 335th. Quartermaster ) Depot Company. • • , )	VIII BOMBER COMMAND.
	Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 123, 10 September 1943« Sentence: Barreto - Dishonorable ‘ * discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for one year; Colitto - Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and
confinement at hard labor for two years. The 2912th Disciplinary Training Center.'
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record,of trial in the cases of th'e soldiers named above has been examined by the Board' of Review.
2.	Accused were tried upon the following Charge and specifications:
RATTR'RTO '
CHARGE: -Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification 1:	In that Pvt. Eugene G,. Barreto,
335th Quarterinaster Depot Company, did at Station Q-104, on or about 31 July 1943, wrongfully introduce into-Quartermaster 5 .
Station Q-104, five (5) ounces, more or less, of Marijuana.	•*
Specification-2:	In that Pvt. Eugene G. Barreto,
335th Quartermaster Depot Company, did at Station Q-104, on or about 31 July 1943, wrongfully use Marijuana, a narcotic drugi
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
COLITTO
CHARGE j Violation of the 96th Article of War’,'
Specification-It* -In that Pvt, George M, Colitto,
335th Quartermaster Depot Company,' did at Station Q-104, on or about 31st day'of July ’
1943, wrongfully introduce into Station Q-104,
. five (5) ounces, more or less, of Marijuana,*
Specification 2:	In that Pvt. George M. Colitto,
335th Quartermaster Depot Company, did at Station Q-104, on or about 31st day of July 1943, wrongfully use Marijuana, a narcotic 1 drug. .	.
Each accused was separately charged but their triads were consolidated.
Each pleaded not guilty to the Charge and specifications. Accused Barreto, was found not guilty of Specification 1 and guilty of Specification 2 except the words "it Station Q-104"»’substituting therefor the words "at or near Station Q-104", of the ertcepted words not guilty, of the substituted words, guilty and guilty of the Charge. Accused Colitto, was found guilty of both specifications and the Charge. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. Each accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct; Barreto for one year and Colitto for two years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, tJ.S, Army, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for actitin pursuant to Article of War 50£*
3.	The prosecution’s evidence was substantially as follows:
(a)	Sergeant Cliff Goldsmith, Investigator of the Provost Marshal General's Department, identified Pros.Ex.l, a statement by accused Barreto (R9) and Pros.Ex.la, a statement by accused Colitto (RIO) as statements which were obtained by him, after each had been informed by him "of their rights before any statement was taken" (R34). Majoi* Paul V, Wilcox, Air Corps, witnessed the signing by accused Barreto of Pros.Ex.l. He saw no evidence of coercion upon Barreto in the process of obtaining his statement (R18). Captain Tyler M. Birch, Air Corps Headquarters, 2nd Bombardment Wing, identified Pros.Ex.la. "The constitutionsrights of the accused with reference to his ability to remain silent if he so desired" were explained to accused Colitto in the presence of this witness who also read to accused the warning paragraph In the statement. Captain Birch also witnessed the signing of the statement by accused (R19).
Each accused was sworn as a witness only for the purpose of explaining the circumstances of his signing Pros.Ex.l and la respectively (R20,26). The court correctly limited their cross-examination to facts pertaining to the taking of their statements (R21,26).
— 2 —
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(139)
Accused Barreto denied that Goldsmith at any time advised him of his rights (R2l).' He testified that on the morning ‘of 12 August (1943) he was taken to Hangar 5 and Goldsmith "started asking questions and writing on a scratch pad all the questions and answers I gave him" (R23). When he had obtained all the answers; he drew out of a drawer*
"a sheet of paper with some mimeograph in the top of it, in which I lent over and read that it was my right to remain silent or to make a statement. *******. I said not to start writing that because it was my right to remain silent and I would wait to see my lawyer and I was not going to make any statement. *******
He got mad, and told me if I didn't sign the statement it would be mighty tough for me.
******* He said 'After I have been working two or three-hours on this statement, I am not going to let it go. Just sign this or it will be mighty tough for you*" (R23).
Accused Barreto admitted he was neither assaulted nor physically mistreated (R24), He wap simply told to sign and did so without being threatened by anyone (R25).
Accused Colitto testified that he was also taken to Hangar 5 on 12 August (1943), where he was questioned by Goldsmith but was not advised of his rights therein by the sergeant (R27). He described approximately the same procedure by Goldsmith in taking his statement as was followed in the case of Barreto. When the sergeant had transcribed his notes from the scratch pad to the mimeographed sheet, he handed it to Colitto to read when Colitto noticed some writing at the top of the paper and for the first time became aware of his rights.	"It was too late to do anything then because
I	had given the statement".	Accused and the sergeant then proceeded to the
officers' club where they met Captain Birch who took the paper and asked accused if he had read it and was willing to sign it. jColitto said he was willing to sign and Captain Birch advised him of his rights before he signed (R27). Accused admitted that he was not at any time told he had to sign the statement (R28).	-**••'*
Captain Donald L. Brame, ‘335th Quartermaster Depot Company, commanding officer of accused, testified he advised both accused that any-* thing they might tell him could be used against them (R32) and that he told Barreto he had the right to remain silent but didn't remember if he had also so informed Colitto (R33)» The two statements were admitted in evidence * by the court as Pros.Ex.l and I5 (R34)«
Barreto's statement in pertinent part summarizes as followst he had commenced smoking marijuana cigarettes in Cuba and after entering the United States continued to use them; he had smoked them for a period of five years and had probably smoked fifty before entering the Army. From induction, 11 September 1942 to the date he met Colitto at the port of embarkation
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
on or about 1 July 1943 he had not smoked marijuana. At the port he met Colitto in an open field and from the odor of a cigarette smoked by Colitto he recognized it as a marijuana cigarette, Colitto offered him and he accepted a marijuana- cigarette. Colitto and Barreto continued to smoke marijuana cigarettes at the port and on shipboard while en route over-sea.
The marijuana was always supplied by Colitto*. Colitto gave Barreto some marijuana on shipboard. After arriving at Bungay, Barreto continued to secure marijuana from Colitto - in all about 25 or 30 marijuana cigarettes. The last he obtained on 7 August 1943. On one evening late in July 1943 he smoked marijuana in Ditchingham, England. Colitto is the only person who had given him marijuana since he has been in the army (Proa.Ex.l).
Colitto’s statement contains the following relevant admissions: he entered the Army 21 May 1942 and had been smoking- marijuana cigarettes occasionally fdr a year prior to that time. While stationed at San Bernardino, California, he-went into Mexico and purchased eight cans of marijuana. He gave one can to a Lieutenant Francisco of the Medical Corps; five of the cans went to civilians and he kept two cans. Occasionally he and Lieutenant Francisco smoked marijuana cigarettes together. He met Barreto at the port- of embarkation. On shipboard en route to England, Colitto, Barreto and Lieutenant Francisco twice smoked marijuana cigarettes while together and Lieutenant Francisco and- Colitto on one occasion. Lieutenant Francisco gave him less than tobacco can.of marijuana Immediate-ly prior to maHng port in England. Barreto made about 30 cigarettes from this can.
Since arriving at Bungay he has smoked several marijuana cigarettes with Barreto, Manos, Maddalena and others. He furnished the -cigarettes. He has given Barreto and other American soldiers marijuana cigarettes but has never sold them (Pros.Ex.lfi).’
(b)	Private Albert S. Gribek, 335th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified he was stationed at Bungay the latter part of July 1943. In answer to the question, "Did you ever request of Private Colitto the procurement of a marijuana cigarette", he stated he.did (R35) and that Colitto said "he would try and get them for me". The next evening Colitto gave witness two cigarettes (R36) in camp (R38). Witness had had no experience with marijuana cigarettes or with marijuana. He smoked the cigarettes given him which did not appear to be of the ordinary kind. He was not a cigarette smoker and took it for granted these were marijuana cigarettes (R36), but did not recall that Colitto stated the cigarettes to be marijuana (R38).
'	(c) Private Nicholas J. Maddalena, 335th Quartermaster Depot
Company, testified he saw accused Colitto near the latrine at Bungay, rolling a cigarette.	Witness asked if he could have one and one was given
him which he smoked*.	It made him a little dizzy (R39). He is a cigar
but not a cigarette smoker, had never had any "connection" with marijuana (R40) and had never smoked marijuana before so as to be able to make a comparison (R4l)• This cigarette might have been just an ordinary one and
- 4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(141)
it had little effect on witness (R41). ' He did not recognise the taste and smell as being different from any'other cigarette. This smoking occurred in camp at Bungay (R40),	-	4
• (d) Private Thomas C, Kanos, 335th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified that accused Colitto offered him what Colitto said was a marijuana cigarette and and that Colitto also said he had smoked marijuana prior to coming to this theater (R43). One evening in July 1943 in Bungay, while witness was in Colitto’s tent, Colitto blamed accused Barreto for taking a can of marijuana which was missing. Witness also testified that Barreto told him of giving a marijuana cigarette to a civilian boy and girl at a pub (R44). He had smoked several of Colitto’s cigarettes without their affecting him. Although he had never seen, examined or made a study of marijuana, he. was sure the cigarettes- Colitto gave him were marijuana from what Colitto had told him and from what he had seen of marijuana when in Colitto’s' company (R45-4.6). While at Bungay he had seen both of accused smoking marijuana cigarettes which witness knew because of their peculiar odor (R46-47). -
(e)	Captain James H. Mouradian, Medical Corps, Headquarters 2nd • 1 Bombardment Wing, testified he knew a substance known as "cannabis sativa indicus or hemp" and that-it possesses narcotic properties. The Captain described some of the effects of marijuana on a novice smoker and testified it was more habit-forming than alcohol or tobacco (R50), However, he did not identify "cannabis sativa indicus" as being the same as marijuana or having any relation to it,
(f)	Private George Fleischman, 345th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified that sometime in July (1943) he was on a detail with Colitto during which time they had a discussion about marijuana and he requested accused Colitto to obtain some marijuana for him. Later "in front of the warehouse", Colitto gave witness a cigarette. Colitto did not state whether or not it was a marijuana cigarette. They affected witness when he smoked them .(R52).
(g)	Private Joe Cavellari, 345th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified he knew both accused, being stationed with them. He knew marijuana cigarettes and could distinguish them by their smell. Colitto told witness he smoked marijuana to relieve the pain in his leg (R53-54-)•
. (h) Corporal Lewis F. Otero, 335th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified he was stationed witijtoth of accused and -had talked with accused Barreto about smoking marijuana (R54) •	Witness did not see him smoking in
camp but had seen him smoking cigarettes out of camp which because of the smell he believed to be marijuana (R56). . Barreto told him of giving a marijuana cigarette .to a civilian girl. He knew they were smoking marijuana cigarettes by the smell (R55)»
1
4.	The evidence for the defense was in substance as follows*
(a) Mr. William Francis Greeves, an analytical chemist, testified that a person named Goldsmith brought him certain packets containing powder-
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(H2)
ed leaves and seeds to determine what they were. The substance was "undoubtedly hemp" but he was unable to give anything more definite about it. "Hemp grown in tropical climates is a narcotic or contains a narcotic body". He further testified*that "the name marijuana has not until recently been known to me. Hemp, the scientific name known to any biologist, cannabis sativa, is known the world over. The name marijuana, I understand, is the name by which it is known in the United States ***** (R60),
■ •-
(b) 2nd lieutenant Frank Marcovitch, CMP., 1119th Military Police Company, and Police and Prison officer of the post, testified both accused had been in the guardhouse about a month and their work had been satisfactory (R6U.	_	'
5.;	(a)	The	staff	judge advocate attached to his review a list of 4-5.
errors and irregularities occurring at the trial. Most of these errors and irregularities were of form and procedure. Some undoubtedly were dangerously close.to being prejudicial to the substantial rights of the accused. However, inasmuch as there is sufficient competent evidence to support the findings the errors and irregularities can affect only the severity of the sentence and do not require further comment,
(b)	The effort of the defense* to establish the fact that the v respective statements of Barreto and Colitto were obtained in an irregular manner and without due and timely warnings utterly failed. The evidence is clear that in the case of each accused the statements were freely and voluntarily given and that is the.major test of their admissibility (CM ETO 397. Shaffer: CM ETO 506, Bryson: CM ETO 559, Monsalve).
(c)	Proof of the corpus delicti of the offenses of which accused Colitto was found ghilty was furnished by the testimony of Gribek (R36,38), Maddalena (R39), Manos (R44)> Fleischman (R52) and Cavellari (R53-54)• The corpus delicti as to Barreto was proved by the testimony of Manoa (R46-47) and _Cter*vi (R56). The necessary foundation for the admission of the respective statements of accused was therefore laid (MCM., 1928, par.U4&, p.115: CM 202213. Mellon).
•	(d)	The	separate statement of each accused contained recitals
which were prejudicial to the co-accused. Each statement was admitted in evidence without any explanation from the law member that it was admissible only against the accused making the same (MCM., 1928, par.ll4£, p,117).
While it is apparent that the rights of each accused have therefore been infringed, the question presented for consideration is whether such infringement is merely technical or whether it substantially affected their rights. The case of CM 210985, Bonner. Judd and Riley is particularly applicable. The Board of Review in that case concluded that where there exists substantial evidence of the guilt of a co-accused, independent of any statements admitted in evidence, that such infringement is merely technical and is not prejudicial error. Oppositely if the- evidence of
- 6 —
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(143)
guilt of a co-accused is fragmentary or of doubtful character such infringement is highly injurious and requires the Board of Review to set aside the finding of guilty. The Board of Review, in said holding, particularly indicated that such action is dictated where the trial judge advocate refers to the statement as evidence against the co-accused. In the instant case there is. substantial evidence that Colitto both introduced marijuana into Bungay camp (Specification 1) and smoked it on or about the time alleged in Specification 2. Likewise there is convincing evidence that Barreto used the narcotic on or about the time alleged (Specification 2). The record does not reproduce the argument of the trial judge advocate. Tinder such situation and following the principle announced in the Bonner et al case, supra, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the irregularity in the use of. the s tatements of each accused did not. prejudice the rights of the co-accused.
6.	By paragraph 4, General Orders #25, War Department, 11 March 1918, the possession of habit-forming drugs by military personnel not ordered by a medical officer is prohibited. By cable, 6 November 194-3, The Judge Advocate General has advised the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of this office, that paragraph 4, General Order #25, mentioned above is still operative. Marijuana, or the plant Cannabis Sativa, has been recognised, regulated and taxed by Congress as a dangerous, habit-forming drug (Act of February 10, 1939; 53 Stat. 279 et seq and 384- et seq; 26 USCA 2590,3230). Webster's New International Dictionary, second edition, defines marijuana as being identical with Cannabis Sativa, and it was thus classified by Dr. Greeves, the analytical chemist (R60).	The court was
authorized to take judicial notice of the fact that marijuana is a narcotic (James v. United States 61.Fed (2nd) 912, Certiorari denied 288 U.S. 613,	1
77 L. Ed., 987; 1 Wharton's Criminal Evidence,. 31th Ed.,-sec.50, p.58). Therefore, there can be no question but what the provisions of par.4-, General Order #25, War Department were applicable to the possession of marijuana on the dates alleged in the specifications in the instant case.
In passing it should be noted that the possession of marijuana by the accused in the small quantities shown would not be a violation of the Harrison Narcotic Act nor of the Marijuana Act (United States v. Jin Fuey Moy 241 U.S. 394, 60 L. Ed., 1061) had the offenses been committed within the continental United States, and it is extremely doubtful if the tax and penal provisions of the mentioned narcotic regulative statutes possess extraterritoriality (American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co, 213 U.S. 347; 53 L. Ed., 827,832; Sandberg v. McDonald, 248 U.S. 185,196; 63 L. Ed., 200,204;
New York Central R. Co. v. Chisholm, 268 U.S. 29; 31j 69 L. Ed., 828,832).
Thevproof of.use of the narcotic includes proof of possession of same. While proof of mere possession will not necessarily sustain a charge of use of an article, contrawise proof of use will sustain a charge of possession. The "possession" prohibited by the General Order means not only a mere.physical holding, but also includes control of the thing possessed with the right to dispose of it in any manner the possessor sees
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(IU)	CONFIDENTIAL
fit (49 C.J., Bee.1, p.1094; Colbaugh v. United States, 15 Fed (2nd) 929, 931). The allegation in Specification 2 and the proof thereof that each accused "did *** wrongfully use" marijuana is legally equivalent under the circumstances to a declaration and finding that accused "did wrongfully possess" the/narcotic. . The verb "use" means1
".to make use of, to convert to.one’s .5	1	service,	to avail one self of, to;
•	'	employ" (Black's Law Dictionary, 3rd
Ed., p.1787).
and it is.entirely consistent with the approved principles of pleading under the Manual for Courts-Martial to construe the word "use" in the specifications in this base as "possess" (MCH., 1928, par.87]2, p.74).
It was not necessary for the prosecution to negative by allegations in the specifications and by its proof the fact that accused possessed marijuana by order of a medical officer.' SUeh excepted possession was a matter of.defense, (Keith v. United States, 11 Fed (2nd) (CCA) 933) Wemstein v. United .States 11 Fed (2nd) (CCA) 505} United States-v. Union-Paoifio Railroad.Co., 20 Fed. Supp. (Idaho) 665: United States v. Cook, 17 Wall.>168, 21 L. Ed., 538; 31 C.J., seo.269, p.720).	.
• ' > ‘ *
Barreto, by his statement (Pros.Ex.l) admitted he had "been smoking marijuana.cigarettes for the last 5 or 6 years". He smoked them while at the port of embarkation, ion shipboard while en route over-sea and after his arrival at Bungay. Corporal Otero testified he had seen Barreto_smoke cigarettes he "thought were marijuana" at the warehouse (R55-5&)» Private Manos testified Barreto said he smoked marijuana cigarettes and had given some away (R44), This testimony was not contradicted.
Colitto by his_own statement (Pros.Ex,la) admitted that he had been smoking marijuana cigarettes occasionally for about a year before he entered the army on 23- May 1942. He described purchasing eight tobacco cans of it for himself and others, in old Mexico while in the arny stationed in California, of which purchase he retained two cans. He smoked marijuana on shipboard while coming over to England and since arriving in Bungay.	He
furnished the cigarettes smoked in Bungay and he gave some marijuana	>
cigarettes away (R55). Private Gribek asked Colitto for a -marijuana cigarette and was later given two cigarettes by accused in camp' (R38).
Private Maddalena also asked for and was given by Colitto a cigarette in the camp at Bungay which cigarette made him a little dizzy when he smoked it (R4D). Private Manos testified that accused Colitto offered him what Colitto said was marijuana in June 1943 while still .in the United States and that one.evening in July 1943 while Manos was in Colitto's tent, Colitto missed a can of marijuana (R44). Private Fleischman talked with Colitto, while on a detail with him, about smoking marijuana and requested Colitto to obtain some for him and Colitto later gave him a cigarette in front of the
- 8
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(145)
warehouse. It affected him.when he smoked them (R52).
The proof as to Barreto establishes that his possession of the narcotic was in the neighborhood of Station Q-104.
"The rule accepted now by practically all courts is that a variance in criminal law is not now regarded as material unless it. is of such a substantive character as to mislead the accused in preparing his defense, or is likely to place him in a second Jeopardy for the same offense.
Hence, the tests of a fatal variance arei Was defendant misled in preparing his defense? Will defendant be protected against a future proceeding involving the same charge?"(2 Wharton’s Criminal •
Evidence, sec.1028, p.1802-3)'.
' ‘ ) -
"The substitution of a new date or place may, but does not necessarily, change the nature or identity of the offense," (MCM.,
1928, par.78c, p.65".
i
"If the specification alleges the offense to have been committed ’on* a certain . . date or ’at’ a certain-place, the court in its findings may, by exceptions and substitutions, find another date or place if the evidence supports such amendments, provided the new date or place is sufficiently near the one alleged that an Injustice is not done the accused." (MCM.,
1921, par.74£, p.53).
In the case against Barreto the difference between the place named in Specification 2 - "at Station Q-104" - and that named in the findings-- "at or near-Station Q-104" --is not material under the above rules. Barreto could-not have been misled nor can he again be placed In jeopardy for this offense.
There Is therefore substantial evidence-that both accused were not only in manual possession of marijuana on or about 31 July 1943, but also used the same in form of cigarettes.
The violation by accused of paragraph 4, General Orders #25, War Department, 11 March 1918 by possessing a narcotic drug, vizi marijuana, was an-offense under Article of War 96 (CM 156134 (1923;, Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, par.454(74), p.36l).
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(146)
CONFIDENTIAL
7.	Colltto was found guilty of wrongfully Introducing five ounces, more or less of marijuana into Station Q-104 on or about 31 July 194-3. '■
The evidence and his own statement clearly establishes that on or about
the time alleged he had manual possession of some marijuana at said station. The inference is logical and just that he brought part of the marijuana acquired in Mexico into the Army station at Bungay. The proof does not show the quantity of marijuana brought’ into camp. However, such deficiency in the proof is immaterial in the face of the proof that he did bring a quantity of marijuana into camp. The variance involved no element of surprise prejudicial to the accused's efforts to prepare his defense (United States v.-Bagen, 314 U.S. 513, 86 L. Ed., 342,349)•
The act of introducing a habit-forming narcotic drug into a command quarters, station or camp is an offense under Article of War 96. Marijuana contains vicious habit-forming properties. The results of its promiscuous and indiscriminate use by soldiers are so obvious that no- detailed comments are necessary. Manifestly its presence in a camp cannot be tolerated and vigorous measures to prevent its introduction are not only dictated by ordinary prudence and common sense, but also by the higher requirements of military efficiency and discipline. The act of bringing the drug into a camp is certainly a disorder directly and palpably to the prejudice of good order and military dj.scj.pline. (MCM., 1928, par.152^, p.187). The Table of Maximum Punishments prescribed jby Executive Order of 10 December 1920 recognises such act as an offense (MCM., 1928, par.104,2, p.100).
The record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of Colitto's guilt of Specification 1.	.	*
8,	The maximum punishment for the offense of possessing a habitforming drug is dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and imprisonment at Lard labor for one year (CM 156134,’ supr-a).' The offense of introducing a habit-forming narcotic drug into command, quarters, station or camp for purports other than sale c arries a maximum punishment of dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for one year (MUM., 1928, par.IO42, p.100). The sentence imposed upon each of the accused is legal. Execution of the sentence of dishonorable discharge will be ordered only when accused has been convicted -of an offense which renders his retention ‘in the service undesirable or when he has been sentenced to a term of not less than three years. (General Orders #37, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by par.52> General Orders #63, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942). A general prisoner whose approved sentence to confinement is less than three years will not be returned to the United States for the service of such sentence except on express orders of Headquarters, ETOUSA (General Orders #37, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942). Confinement of the accused at 2912th Disciplinary Training Center is therefore proper.
10 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(147)
9.	The charge sheet shows that accused. Private Eugene G. Barreto, is 37 years 4 months old and was inducted at Camp Blanding, Florida, on 27 August 1942 and that accused. Private George M. Colitto, is 28 years 2 months old and was inducted at Fort Jay, New York, 21 May 1942.
10.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.
- U -
confidential
CONFIDENTIAL
(H?)
'	lat	lad.
ID, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 19 NOV 1943	TO:	Commanding
General, TUI Bomber Command, APO 634, U.S. Army.
✓
1.	In the cases of Private EUGENE G. BARRETO (34249328) and Private GEORGE 11. COLITTQ (32341005), both of 335th Quartermaster Depot Company,
AAF Station Q-104, attention is Invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record id legally sufficient to support the findings and sentences, which holding is hereby approved. - Under the provisions of Article of War 50&, you now have authority to order execution of the • sentences, but your attention is invited to the provisions of paragraph 52 of General Orders #37, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by General Orders #63, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 providing that execution of a sentence to dishonorable discharge will be ordered only when accused has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the servioe undesirable or when he has been sentenced to a term of not less than three years confinement. It is not clear from the evidence in this ease that either of accused are chronic marijuana addicts. While their offenses are serious and merit substantial punishment, it is doubtful that they render accused undesirable persons for the military service. I suggest that the dishonorable discharges be suspended during the period of confinement.
- 1	2. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 902. For convenience
of refarence (ETO 902)
that number in brackets at the end of the orders
E. C. MoHEIL,
Ler General, United States Army, ^Assistant Judge Advocate General.
CONFIDENTIAL
#(149)
