#(377)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 438.
UNITED STATES
.v.
Private HAROLD ADOLPHUS SMITH (I4045090), alias HAROLD A. SMITH, alias HARRY ADOLPHUS SMITH, alias HAROLD ALVIN SMITH, Headquarters and Headquarters Company, First Tank Destroyer Group.
) SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES ) OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF ) OPERATIONS.
)
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) • Bristol, England, 12 March )	1943. Sentence: To be hanged
) by the neck until dead.
)
)
HOIDING of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	92nd Article of 'War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Harold Adolphus
Smith, Headquarters and Headquarters Company ^
First Tank Destroyer Group, did, at Chisledon Camp, "E" Company, 116th Infantry, near Swindon,
Wilts, England, on or about January 9, 1943* with malice aforethought, wilfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully and with premeditation kill one Private Harry M. Jenkins, Company ME",
116th Infantry, a human being by shooting him with a pistol.
^ • 1 °
1 -
D^NTJAL
(378)	CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE II: Violation of the 69th Article of War#
Specification! In that Private Harold Adolphus Smith, Headquarters and Headquarters Company,
First Tank Destroyer Group, having been placed in confinement in the stockade at Chiseldon
' Camp, Wilts, England, did, at Chiseldon Camp,
Wilts, England, on or about December 31, 1942, escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.
He pleaded not guilty to Charge I and its Specification and guilty to Charge II and its Specification and was found guilty of both of the Charges and their Specifications, No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead.
The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer, Southern . Base Section, S.O.S., ETOUSA, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence, withheld the order directing the execution thereof, and forwarded the record pursuant to Article of War 505-,
3,	On 31 December 1942, the accused together with Harry L. English, a general prisoner, escaped from confinement in the guardhouse at Chisledon Camp, Wilts, England, and together went to London (R.65), They remained in London about a week when running short of money, accused, alone, left London on Friday morning, 8 January 1943, telling English he would return to camp to collect some moneys owing to him (R,67). Accused reached Swindon about 11:45 P.M,, the night of 8 January 1943 and immediately went to Chisledon Camp six miles from Swindon, he claims, to rejoin his unit (Prosecution's Exhibit ''O1', statement of accused). . He arrived at the kitchen of the camp about 2i00 A.LI,, of Saturday morning, 9 April 1943, and was given a sandwich by two members of a guard detail (Corporal Amos R. Buchanan and Pfc. Richard B. Payne) from Company "E", 116th Infantry, who took him to their barracks where he spent the night (R.18,24), Accused remained in or about such barracks until approximately 3*30 in the afternoon of the same day. Men coming into the barracks from guard duty dropped their pistols "in the nearest convenient spot" (R.21), During the day accused took, without authority, a U.S. Army ,45 caliber pistol, holster, web belt and three clips of ammunition. This equipment he strapped about his waist, under his overcoat and walked out of the barracks about four o'clock in the afternoon, checking the clip in the pistol as he went (Prosecution's Exhibit "0"). He was not drunk (R.18,25).
The story as told by accused in his sworn statement (Prosecution's Exhibit "0") made 11 January 1943, two days after the shooting, was substantially corroborated by witnesses at the trial and is as follows*
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
"Statement of Pvt. Harold Adolphus Smith, taken at 33 Davies Street, London W.l, at 9:30 A.M., on date below,
Jan. 11th 1943. Private Harry Adolphus Smith, it is my duty to inform you of your rights at this time. It is your privilege to remain silent. Anything you may say may be used either for or against you in the event that this investigation results in a trial.
Do you thoroughly understand your rights. If so sign below,
(Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith.
I, Private Harry Adolphus Smith, ASM 14.045090,
Hq. Hq.Co, 1st Tank Destroyer Group, APO #302 having been duly warned do hereby make the following statement entirely of my own free will without threat or promise of reward.
At about 5:00 P.M. on Friday, Jan 1st 1943 I went A.W.O.L, from ny unit and went to London. I had just been paid and had about L15. I rented a room at the Royal Hotel, Russell Square, London.
(At bottom of page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith Private Harry English, 894th Tank Destroyer Bn, whom I met on the train coming to London, also stayed in my room, #5077, at the Royal Hotel, He was also A.W.O.L. from his outfit.
On the following day, Saturday, I went around London, sight seeing and going to the movies.
Private English was v/ith me for a short while. He later left to meet a girl friend, I do not know her name but I recall that she was in room #2053 at the Royal Hotel. On Saturday night, Jan 2nd,
English engaged room #1001 at the Royal Hotel. We both stayed in that room.
English and I kept room #1001 until Thursday,
Jan. 7th 1943. I did not see much of English as he was with his girl friend most of the time. At about 3:30 P.M,, on Thursday, English introduced me
(At bottom of page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith to a British Merchant seaman who invited us to his home. His name was "Pete". I do not know his address as we went to his house by taxi.
English and I both stayed at Pete's house for the night. At about 1:00 P.M. on Friday, Jan.8th 1943 > English and I left Pete's house. English went to Victoria and I went to Paddington Station to get a train and return to my unit. English had a date with a girl in Victoria. He told me he would meet me in Swindon the following day.
(380)
I caught the 9:20 P.M. train from Paddington Station, Friday night. I arrived in Swindon at about 11:45 the same night. I immediately went to Chilsedon camp, 6 miles from Swindon, to rejoin my unit. I found my organization had moved out. I saw a light in one of the camp kitchens so
(At bottom of. page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith. I entered and asked for something to eat, A guard, armed with a pistol, was on duty in the kitchen. There was no cook around so the guard gave me a cheese sandwich. He grumbled quite a bit about me asking for something to eat after hours. Another guard who was present in the kitchen went to the barracks and made arrangements for me to sleep there. I, and the guard who gave me the sandwich, followed the other guard to the barracks. I slept there in a bunk pointed out by the guard who had gone ahead to make arrangements. I got up the next morning at about 7:00 A.M. I did not eat any breakfast. (Ivery seldom eat breakfast) I hung around the barracks until about noon when I went to the mess hall for dinner. After dinner I went back to the
(At bottom of page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith, squad room where I had slept. At about 2:00 P.M. that day,'Saturday, Jan. 9th 1943, while in the squadroom I saw a U.S. Army .45 cal. automatic pistol, holster, webb belt and 3 full clips of ammunition. The pistol was laying on top of a bvrnk. I strapped the belt and pistol around my blouse, uooder my overcoat, and walked out of the barracks, at about 4*00 P.M. While in the corridor I checked the clip in the pistol.
Finding it was full I pushed it back in the pistol. I always wanted to have an automatio so I took the gun from the squadroom intending to keep it as a souvenir, I had no intention of using the gun or shooting anybody. After checking the clip in the corridor, I started walking toward the mess hall. Just as I got outside the barracks I met
(At bottom of page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith, a guard armed with a pistol. He looked like the guard who had given me the sandwich in the kitchen the night before. When I was about six feet away from the guard I said to him "Hiya Bud".
When I got about even with him and just as we were passing each other, the guard turned to me and said, "Yihat the hell did you say". I stopped
jsfr 1°
(381)
:NT!AL
and replied "I just said hiya Bud”. The guard said "What do you mean by that”, I replied "Just Hiya Bud”. When I said that the guard took a step toward me and at the same time bringing his right hand back toward his holster*
I did not know whether he was going to hit me or draw his pistol and shoot me. At this time the guard and I were about four feet from each other. As the guard made the motion
(At bottom of page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith, toward his holster I immediately drew my pistol . from under my unbuttoned overcoat with my right hand. All in the same motion I pimped a cartridge into.the chamber with my left hand and fired point blank at the guards stomach from the hip position. When the first shot hit the guard he spun around to the right until his back was toward me. I then fired one or more shots (I can't remember the number) into the guard's back. As I was shooting the guard was falling to the ground. After I had finished firing at the guard at my feet, I remained there for a few moments standing over him with the pistol still in my hand. At this time I saw an unarmed soldier come out of the barracks and run toward me with clenched fists. I fired two shots over Iris
(At bottom of page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith, head to scare him. He turned around and ran back into the barracks. I then bolstered my pistol and ran away from the scene of the shooting. I ran out of the camp, along the Ogburne - Marlborough road. I caught a bus at Ogburne at about A:30 p.m. and went to Marlborough, about four miles away. I arrived at Marlborough at about 5:00 P.M. on Jan. 9th 19A3, the day of the shooting. I remained around Marlborough until about midnight at which time I caught a train for London. I arrived at Paddington Station, London, at about A*00 A.M. Sunday, Jan.
10th 19A3. As the tubes were closed I took a taxi and went to Euston Station where I sat in a chair at the Y.M.G.A, Restrooms. Sunday morning at about 8:00 A.M., Private English came to the Restrooms.
(At bottom of page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith. We talked a while and I told him my outfit had moved. I did not tell him anything about me shooting a guard in Chisledon. I did however w - show him the pistol I was carrying. He asked I U
r
U
- 5 -
NFiCENTlAL
(382)
me to loan it to him. I did so at about &i05 A.M.
He went out with the pistol and returned about 15 minutes later and gave it back to me. English then left me saying he would meet me in the Restrooms that night. After English left I also went out of the Restrooms and walked around London,
I returned to the Y.M.C.A. at Euston Station late Sunday afternoon and remained there. I slept in one of the chairs. At about 2:30 A.M. on Monday Jan 11th 194-3 I was awakened by a uniformed London policeman. He took my pistol away from me and escorted me
(At bottom of page - Signature) Harold Adolphus Smith, to a police station. I was later turned over to the U.S. Military Police and put in jail. I know the number of the pistol I stole from the barracks in Chisledon and which I used in shooting the guard is 515525. I have memorized this number.
I drank no liquor on the day of the shooting. I have read my statement of 9 pages and 6 lines and it is all true,
(Signed) Harold Adolphus Smith.
This statement taken by W. R. Dalton, I.D. -
0.	P.M.G. in the presence of Agent J. A. Langevin,
1.	D. - O.P.M.G.
I have been duly sworn by Lt. Richard M. McGuinBSS and I swear that the statement I have given consisting of nine (9) pages and six (6) lines Is the truth.
(Signed) Harold Adolphus Smith
Richard M. McGuiness 1st Lt. C.M.P,
Witness:	Summary Court.
(Signed) Jas. A. Langevin,
Agent I.D. O.P.M.G.
In front of the barracks, Private Harry M. Jenkins, Company "E",
116th Infantry, was on guard at about 4*00 P.M,, on 9 January 1943f armed with a pistol (R.22,58 -59, Prosecution’s Exhibit "0"). Private Leroy K, Reed, Company "E", 116th Infantry, who was inside a barracks, heard shots and a cry for help and on running from the barracks, he reached the spot where Jenkins was lying in the street within "about 30 seconds" from the time he heard the shots (R.63)• On being asked what was wrong, Jenkins pointed to accused, who was standing nearby, and said "that corporal shot me" (R.57). Jenkins had on his overcoat, helmet and leggings, with a pistol in his holster buckled around his waist. When Reed looked, accused was getting a pistol out of his
6
HTIAL
(383)
lA.';u I
uENTlAL
overcoat pocket. Reed started running and two shots were fired at him (R.58,59;- Prosecution's Exhibit "0") as he ran around the barracks and into the mess hall where he reported to lieutenant Knight that Jenkins had been shot. Accused then fled along a road leading past the camp where he was seen about A* 20 P.1.1., on Saturday, 9 January 19A3 by a British civilian who identified him in court during the trial (R.AO-46j Prosecution's Exhibit "0").
Jenkins was brought into the Swindon hospital about As30 PM. on Saturday, January 9th, suffering from shock and gunshot wounds (R.3l).
One wound was in the left side of the back, one in the left arm, one in the left thigh and one in the right thigh. "Two bullets in his body". "Probably one went through" (R.32). A bullet was removed from the right abdominal wall, apparently being the one entering the left side of the back (R.33) and, In the opinion of Dr. Lichtenstein it was the cause of Jenkins death (R.35) which occurred the next evening. Dr. Lichtenstein identified the bullet removed from Jenkins body (Prosecution's Exhibit "D") and described it as rather short and thick and not a rifle bullet (R.34-).
Lt. William B. Williams, commander of "E" company of which deceased, Jenkins, was a member, was with Jenkins in the hospital (R.10). Jenkins told him "that the soldier who had been at the camp for several hours and had come in the night before had shot him", and said there had been no conversation between them before or at the time of the shooting.' He said he was shot first in the back. At the time,
Jenkins was very sick; and weak and was laboring for his breath (R,ll).
Lt. Williams identified the jacket worn by Jenkins (Prosecution's Exhibit "I") by the hole above the belt in the back and the bloodstains inside around the hole, and also identified various other articles of Jenkins clothing produced at the trial as exhibits (R.52,53)•
James Watson, a London police sergeant, found accused in an armchair in the Y.M.C.A., rest room at Euston station, London, about 3 o'clock in the morning of 11 January 194-3. He was lying in the chair in his shirt sleeves, asleep. His coat and jacket were on the back of the chair and a web-belt with pistol in a holster was under his back. The pistol was a Colt, number 515525, with a magazine in it, which pistol Police Sergeant Watson identified as Prosecution's Exhibit "F" herein (R.4-8). The magazine in the gun was full and there were two clips in the clip-pouch on the belt, one with five cartridges in it and one empty (R.4-9). "The accused was much surprised and went with me very quiet and sullen" (R.50). The officer took accused's identity card from him at the time he picked him up (Prosecution's Exhibit "G"j R.51).
By stipulation the post mortem examination of deceased was "entered as evidence and marked Prosecution Exhibit "L" (R.5A)» Also by stipulation, the report of the gunsmith and ballistics expert, Prosecution's Exhibit "H", was admitted in evidence. In this report
- 7 -
r'nMninrMTi.M
(334)
the ballistic expert finds that the bullet "found in Jenkins stomach" could not have been fired from any other weapon "than the .45 Colt Automatic numbered 515525", and that this pistol "is in working order and is not liable to accidental discharge" (R.51).
Lt. Wallace E. Dalton, C.M.P., Prison Officer, Detention Barracks, London Base Command, as a prosecution witness, stated he and Lt. Langevin of the Provost Marshal General's Detachment, questioned accused after he was delivered to them by the London police (R.73), and that he wrote accused's statement as it was dictated by accused (E.74), each page of which was then signed by accused (R.76) and witnessed by Lt. Langevin and Lt. It'cGuiness (Prosecution's Exhibit "0"). Lt. Dalton was present also when a statement was made by Private (Harry L.) English (Prosecution's Exhibit "N") (R.73), and he testified that the statement was freely given and that no physical force was used to obtain the statement (R.79)«
Defense counsel announced "the rights of the accused as a witness have been explained to him and he elects to remain silent" (R.94).
4.	The accused is named in the Charges and Specifications as "Harold Adolphus Smith", but his serial number is not set forth therein. An MRU card, attached to the record of trial, refers to "Harold Alvin Smith", serial number 14045090, who was born at La Grange, Georgia, on 4 January 1923, and who completed 3 years of grammar school and 3 years of high-school education in said town. Prosecution's Exhibit "G" is the identification card taken from accused (R.51) (W.D., AGO form No.65-4, I<Iarch 21, 1942) of one "Harold A. Smith" whose serial number is given as 14045090. Prosecution's Exhibit "0" is the "Statement of Harold Adolphus Smith ***" but who is described in the body of the statement as "Private Harry Adolphus Smith, ASM, 14045090, Hq., Hq.Co, 1st Tank Destroyer Group, AP0 #302% By certificate of correction the date as to age, pay and service of a certain "Harold A. Smith, 14045090, Headquarters and Headquarters Company, First Tank Destroyer Group", is made part of the record of trial. His age is therein shown as 20 years. The soldier who faced the court was positively identified as the individual who shot deceased (R,17,20,23,25,40,47,57). While these irregularities in connection with the name of accused may be the source of confusion, there is no doubt that the soldier whose name appears with variations in the several records and documents above described is the identical individual who fatally shot the deceased, Jenkins, and further there is no doubt concerning the identity of the individual who was brought to trial charged with murder of deceased.
The record of trial clearly shows that the person named in the charge sheet and the person who sat in court charged with the crime is one and the same person. It is further conclusively established that the person whose record is shown on the MRU card, the person who signed Prosecution's Exhibit "0", the person from whom the identification card
- 8 -
QSfro') 0
(385)
was taken (Prosecution's Exhibit "G") and the person whose record of age, service and pay is shown, is one and the same person, and that this person is the person tried for the offenses set forth in the charge sheet. For convenience and in order to obviate mistakes in the future the Board of Review in the caption of this holding designates accused by his several names.
The defense counsel in his argument (R.95) declared: "First, in consideration of the youth of the accused; born 23 March 1926, age,
17 tomorrow, I believe ***. At the age of 14 he made his debut into the society of the world, principally the United States Array #*#*«.
The MRU card states the date of accused's birth as January 24. 1923. and the record of age, service and pay states his age to be 20 years. However, the W.D. identification card gives the date of birth as January 4« 1922. The Board of Review believes that the date of birth as shown by the MRU card is correct for the following reason:	It	may
properly be assumed that accused entered school in his sixth year. He was in school for 11 years and worked a year in a restaurant making him approximately 18 years old when he enlisted on 4 February 1941 and therefore approximately 20 years old when the crime was committed. If he was born 24 January 1923, he was 19 years 11 months and 15 days old on 9 January 1943* It is apparent that if the birth date of March 23, 1926 is correct, accused must have entered school at the age of about 2 years 8 months - an absurd assumption, for he would hve been only 14 years 8 months and 11 days old when he enlisted after 11 years in school and a year's employment in a restaurant. There is no indication on the MRU card that parental consent for enlistment was obtained.
5.(a) - It is noted that the effect of the plea of guilty made by the accused to Charge II and its Specification was not explained to him but it is presumed that defense counsel performed their dity and that accused knew the effect of such a plea (M.C.M., par.45b, p,35).
(b) - The admission of Prosecution's Exhibit "A" in evidence was objected to by defense counsel, first that it was hearsay and later that it was "presumption, not hearsay". It was read to the court by the trial judge advocate and the law member ruled that its acceptance would be "withheld until further evidence is presented" (R.12). It consists of a letter dated 5 February 1943 to which are attached three indorsements identifying accused, deceased and the pistol involved.
It was not later mentioned nor formally received as evidence, but this letter and these indorsements are attached as exhibits to the record and appear to be a report of the loss of two pistols. One pistol numbered 515525, was recovered from accused by Sgt. James Watson of the London Police at the time he took accused into custody (R.48). The indorsements give the names and organization of both accused and deceased. All of the facts set forth in the letter and indorsements are otherwise shown by the record. While their admissibility wa3 extremely doubtful, accused could not pos sibly be prejudiced by the use made of same.
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL-'
(386)
(c) - Prosecution's Exhibits "B" and "C", photos of barrack buildings which were near the scene of the shooting, were received by the court (R.30) as evidence over the objections of defense counsel that same were not properly identified (R.28). The photos, while not taken by the witness, Payne, were identified by him as correct representations of the barracks and surrounding area, with which he was obviously familiar. This verification was sufficient (22 C.J., sec. 1124., p.92l), and the ruling of the court was correct.
(d)	- Prosecution's Exhibit "E", "the history of the illness of the accident" to deceased was presumably made by Mr. Schofield, "Surgeon to the Hospital", whose signature thereto was identified by Dr. Hugo Lichtenstein and thereupon "accepted" by the court in evidence (R.36) without objection of defense counsel. This statement was clearly hearsay, but its contents were proved by other competent testimony.
The rights of accused could not have been materially affected thereby. Its admission was harmless error.
(e)	- Prosecution's Exhibit "M", a photograph of the situs of the homicide, was accepted by the court, without objection from defense counsel. The witness, Reed, identified it as correctly representing the street upon which accused stood, immediately after the homicide, although Reed was not the photographer (R.57). The evidence of identification was adequate, and the admission of the photo was proper. (See 5(d), supra).
(f)	- Prosecution's Exhibit "N" (R.68) is a signed statement made under oath by Harry L. English, a witness, on 13 January 1943, two days after the arrest of himself and accused. On 13 March 1943 while English was on the witness-stand as a witness for the prosecution the record of trial shows that during his examination by the trial judge advocate the following occurred:
"Q. Did. you and Smith plan to return to the States?
A. I planned that a long time ago, sir.
Q. How?
A. I,was thinking of going back to the States by a boat if I could make it.
Q. Did Smith know anything of those plans?
A. No sir,
Q. Did you ever tell him anything about that?
A. No sir.
Q. Did Smith ever return to London?
A. Not that I know of, sir.
Q. You stated Smith went to collect some money from men who owed him. Was he going to return to you?
A. He was supposed to meet me the next morning at Euston Station.
Q, How were you going to get the money?
A. He was supposed to come back there to meet me.
That was all.
- 10 -
•uibENTIAl
(387)
■ L
Q. Did he meet you?
A. No sir.
Q. Did Smith get the guns?
A. I don't know sir.
Q. Did he hand you any gun?
A. No sir.
TRIAL JUDGE ADVOCATE:	I	have	a	statement	here,
made by the witness, which is in conflict with his testimony. I wish to. enter it in evidence as Exhibit "N". (Trial Judge Advocate here reads the statement to the court) I offer this in evidence, to be marked and attached to the record.
LAW MEZdEER: Accepted.
Q. Did you hear that statement? (the statement just read by the Trial Judge Advocate).
A. Yes sir.
Q. Was anything wrong with it?
A. Yes sir.
Q. Tell the court.
A. That statement was put under the third degree.
Q, Explain.
A. I was put under the third degree, while one officer made out the statement,
Q. Who was the officer?
A. I know it was a Lieutenant of the U.S.Army.
He was a private agent of the F.B.I. He was working for the Provost I&rshal's Office.
Q. Could you identify that man if you saw him?
A. Yes.
Q. Can you describe him?
A. He is shortj has a little mustache, he is light, he is medium built.
(2nd Lieutenant Wallace R. Dalton, C.U.P., was here brought into the courtroom and faced the witness)
Q, Is this that officer? (indicating 2nd Lt.
Wallace R. Dalton)
A. Yes sir.
(Lt. Dalton excused and retired from court room),"
(R.68-69)•
The trial judge advocate in presenting Exhibit "N" did not affirmatively assert that he had been surprised or entrapped by English's testimony. That surprise or entrapment of counsel, forms an exception to the rule which prohibits the impeachment of one's own witness is acknowledged by practically all authorities:
ii-jhhh*- a witness who unexpectedly gives testimony at variance with statement made to a party or counsel before^trial may properly have called to his attention his former statements in order to refresh his memory and move him to speak the
2PCC70
11
Tf
AL
Ou.
i^L!4. 1 irU.
truth by probing his conscience, thus inducing him to correct his testimony or explain the apparent inconsistency, or to enable the party calling him in some way to neutralize his testimony ***" (3 Wharton’s Criminal Evidence, sec.1392, p,2278j Wigmore’s Code of Evidence, sec.825j 70 C.J., sec.1227, p.1032).
There must be actual, not feigned surprise. Counsel must have an honest belief as to what the testimony of the witness will be.
The fact that.he has been informed that a witness will testify to certain matters is no basis for claim of surprise by the failure of the witness to do so. (People v. Reynolds, 48 Cal. App. 688, 192 Pac. 343, 345; Wiese v. State, 47 Okl. Cr. 59, 287 Pac. 1099, 1102; Jeens v. Wrightsville & T.R.Co., 144 Ga. 48; 85 S.E. 1055, 1056j State v. Tresedet; 66 Utah 543, 244 Pac. 654,656). "A party cannot claim to be surprised by the testimony of a witness when he has failed to make inquiry as to what the testimony will be before calling the witness to the stand1' (Sullivan v. United States. 28 Fed (2nd) 147, 149; 3 Wharton's Criminal . Evidence, sec.1394, p.2280j. In the instant case, the trial judge advocate had before him the statement of the witness, English, (Prosecution's Exhibit "N") made on 13 January 1943 to officers of the Provost Marshal General's Department upon which he was entitled to rely when he placed English on the stand. The statement was made during an official investigation by proper officers. (70 C.J., sec.1226, p.1032).
He was not required to express his surprise in formal language, when English testified in contradiction to his prior statement. His production of Prosecution's Exhibit "If indicated his surprise better than words. It is manifest the trial judge advocate was caught off his guard, and that' his 'surprise was in good faith and not feigned,
\
English's testimony on the stand conflicted with his prior statement in two important particulars: (l) in his statement English testified that one of the purposes accused had in mind in returning to camp was to obtain pistols for accused and English. "Just before he left me Friday morning he said he wouldn't stop at nothing in getting the pistols. He said: 'I won'/t stop at nothing'. We had talked about him getting the guns when we were together on Thursday. He said that 'the only way we can get them is from the I.IP post but I'll have to knock out one of the guards to get his first. Then I'll call out the . sergeant of the guard and have him come down to get his' " (Prosecution’s Ex."N"). Opposed to this declaration, English testified on the stand that accused returned to camp "to get some money from fellows that owed it to him", and upon being asked: "VJas there anything else he was* leaving you for?* he answered "No,sir" (R.67);	(2) in his statement
English further declared accused "told me that he had met a British seaman named Charlie and who would get us back to the States and we thought the guns would help us," He also stated that one of the things he had in mind in breaking out of the stockade was going back to the States (Prosecution's Ex,"H"). In his testimony English denied
- 12 -
f? I Ti P M'T! AI
(389)
C-r.fiDENTlAL
that accused had any knowledge of the plan to return by boat to the States and that he (English) had never told accused about such plans.
A further prerequisite for the admission of evidence in impeachment of one's own witness is that the testimony of the witness while on the stand must be affirmative and hostile, prejudicial or injurious to the party by whom the witness was called. (Sneed v. United States, 298 Fed. 911, 915; Randazzo v. United States, 300 Fed. 794>
797; Arine v. United States, 10 Fed. (2nd) 778; 3 Wharton's Criminal Evidence, sec.1393, p.2279). The fact that accused planned to obtain fire-arms even at the cost of violence with the ulterior purpose of using same as a means of returning to the United States certainly furnishes evidence that accused's shooting of deceased was the result of a deliberate, premeditated plan and that he was prepared to use violent means should any attempt be made to thwart his purpose. Manifestly English's testimony on the witness-stand which denied the prearrangement between himself and accused and had for its purpose the exculpation of accused from participation in the plan to obtain firearms for the purpose of aiding them in their intended desertion was not only affirmative evidence, but also highly injurious and prejudicial to the prosecution’s case. The second condition to the introduction of impeaching evidence was therefore mot. .
The trial judge advocate called attention of the witness to his prior contradictory statement. English did not deny giving the prior statement but asserted it had been obtained under compulsion. Under these circumstances the admission of the prior statement in evidence was proper. (3 Wharton's Criminal Evidence, sec.1392, p.2278; I.I.C.M. , par.124b, p.134).
Prosecution’s Exhibit "N" was admissible only for the purpose of inducing English "to refresh his memory and move him to speak the truth by probing his conscience". It was not original substantive evidence in aid of the establishment of prosecution's case against accused. (70 C.J., sec.1236, p.1042, note 86). For the latter purpose it was hearsay and inadmissible, but for the limited purpose indicated, it3 use was unobjectionable. An explanation to the Court by the Law Member of the purpose for v/liich Prosecution's Exhibit "N" was admitted would have been proper (State v. Willette, 46 Montana 326, 127, Pac.1013) but the absence of such explanation was not error. It may be properly assumed, in the absence of objection by the defense or evidence to the contrary, that the Court confined its use to its legitimate purpose (.Yinthrop's Military Law and Precedents (Reprint) p.514).
(g)	- The court admitted in evidence the accused's written confession (Prosecution's Ex. "0") after hearing uncontradicted evidence as to its voluntary nature (R.73>74,75,76,80,81,82,83). There is not a suggestion that it was obtained through the exercise of force, compulsion or violence or because of promises of leniency. Neither was there any objection by defense to its admission. "A confession of accused which was reduced to writing by another person and was read
<5 5 K<i ( °
- 13 -
~ Col'll ijlNTIaL
(390)
over to or by accused, **** and which was signed or otherwise admitted by him to be correct is as much his written confession as one prepared entirely by his own hand would be, and when made freely and voluntarily, it is admissible against him over objections that it was not written by him *** or that it is not accurate, or that it does not recite his exact words, or that it is hearsay, or that it deprives him of the right to confront the witnesses against him." (16 C.J., sec.1508, p.732). The written confession was clearly admissible.
(h)	- A written statement (Defense Ex. l) made by Harry L.
English on 5 March 1943* a time just prior to this trial, of these happenings, which occurred nearly two months earlier, was offered by the defense counsel while English was on the witness stand for cross-examination (R.70). On objection by the trial judge advocate, the court properly refused to accept it in evidence. The best evidence must be produced of which the case is susceptible, and it may happen that oral testimony may be the original and best evidence as to a fact or facts when a statement of the same exists in writing.
"Thus where certain facts within the knowledge of the writer, and material to the issue of the case on trial, have been recited in a ****** communication or other writing, the primary and best evidence of such facts will be not the writing but the personal declaration of the same, under oath and subject to cross-examination, by the writer, and if he can be obtained as a witness, the written statement should not be received." (Winthrop's Military La?/ & Precedents, p.322).
This same statement was later "accepted" in evidence as Defense Exhibit 1 (R»83) over the objection of the trial judge advocate. Defense counsel then immediately requested the court, "due to the incompetency of the witness, that all testimony as given by Private Harry X. English, be removed from the record of this case" (R.83). On refusal of this request by the court, defense counsel asked that Defense Exhibit 1 and all testimony of Private English "be admitted to the record but not as evidence". The admission of the Exhibit was the result of the persistent solicitation of the defense itself. Therefore, if any error were committed it wa3 self-invited by accused's counsel and cannot constitute error prejudicial to accused (24 C.J.S., sec.1843, p.695).
The motion of defense counsel to exclude English's testimony and that same "be removed from the record of this case" "due to the incompetency of the witness" was an anomalous motion which is unknown to legal procedure. Contradictions in the testimony given by English on the stand with his prior statement to the officers of the Provost Marshal General's Department (Prosecution's Exhibit "N") and with his
t °	-14-
CuiiriDENIIAL.
CONFIDENTIAL
(39D
statement given on 5 March 194-3 (Defense-1 s Exhibit l) and between the statements inter sese go to the weight of the evidence and credibility of the witness. Consideration of same was a function of the court.
Such conflicts did not affect his competency as a witness (70 C.J., sec.108, p.82). The ruling of the court denying the motion was correct.
(i)	- Accused states in his confession (Prosecution’s Exhibit ”0") that there was some conversation between him and deceased and that he shot Jenkins the first time from thq£ront when Jenkins made a motion "to hit me or draw his pistol and shoot me". Lt. Williams testified as to a conversation with deceased in the hospital sometime during the day following the shooting wherein Jenkins said there had been no conversation between him and accused before the shooting and that "he was shot first in the back" (R.ll), No objection to the admission of this testimony was made by defense counsel and in the opinion of the Board of Review it is admissible as a dying declaration of deceased.
"Under indictments for murder and manslaughter, the law recognises an exception to the rule rejecting hearsay, by allowing the dying declarations of the victim of the crime, in regard to the circumstances which have induced his present condition, and especially as to the person by whom the violence was committed, to be detailed in evidence by one who has heard them. It is necessary, however, to the competency of testimony of this character -and it must be proved as preliminary to the proof of the declaration - that the person whose words are repeated by the witness should have been in extremis and under a sense of impending death, i.e. in the belief that he is about or soon to die, though it is not necessary that he should himself state that he speaks under this impression, provided the fact is otherwise shown." (Winthrop's Military Law &
Precedents (Reprint), p.326; M.C.M., par.148, p.164-). (Underscoring supplied).
11*** it is no objection to their admissibility that they were brought out in answer to leading questions, or upon urgent solicitations addressed to him by any person or persons *#**w (M.C.M., par.148, p.164.)•
It was the duty of the Court, as a preliminary issue, to determine if deceased made the declaration under such conditions as to entitle it to admission in evidence. It is manifest that deceased was in extremis when he made the statement to Lt. Williams. He died soon
- 15 -
25 % » } °
•;v.lniial
(392)
thereafter. He also made the statement freely and voluntarily. Is there evidence that he had abandoned all hope of recovering from the injury inflicted by accused and was under the firm conviction that his death was inevitable and near at hand? "He made no statement to Lieut. Williams that he thought he would die" or any statement of that nature (R.10), but "he was obviously weak and laboring for his breath".
He failed to answer one or two questions which were asked him (R.ll).
He was operated on about 8:30 P.M., on the night (Saturday) of the shooting. His case was dangerous at that.time (R.33,37). His condition deteriorated the next morning and he was dangerously ill.
He died at 8:30 on Sunday night, 10 January 1943 (R.35)• Dr. Lichtenstein, who assisted in performing the operation on deceased was asked:	"Did
Jenkins at any time appear to believe he was dying?" His response was: "No, I can’t say that from experience. Only I can say that many people who are in such a bad condition as Jenkins was are thinking of dying. Sometimes they express their thoughts and say it, but he never said something like that in my presence" (R.38)• It must be candidly admitted that the evidence in respect to deceased's mental attitude towards his approaching demise is extremely sketchy but the fact that a person feared death must ordinarily be proved by circumstantial evidence. The circumstances in this case supported by Dr. Lichtenstein’s statement warrant an inference that the deceased knew of his approaching death and realized it was inevitable when he made the statement to Lieut. Williams. (CM 228571 (1943) Bui. JAG., Jan. 1943, Vol.II, No.l, par.395, p.9).
(j)	- By stipulation (Prosecution’s Ex."H"j R.51) it was agreed that Robert xx Churchill, gunsmith and ballistic expert would testify, if in court,, substantially in accordance with a written report attached to said stipulation and accepted by the court. By said report Mr. Churchill, testifying as an expert, declared that three certain bullets had been fired.from a .45 Colt automatic pistol #515525 - being the pistol taken from accused at Paddington Station, London, by Police Sergeant James Watson (R.48). The witness further expressed the opinion that the bullets could have been fired from no other pistol. The bullet takery^rom deceased's body was handled by several persons. There was no positive identification of it, or of the other two bullets described in the ballistic report, and no proof that the bullets examined by Mr. Churchill were in fact the bullets which his report represents them to be (R.33,34,36,51,53,76; Prosecution's Ex."D"; Prosecution's Ex."H"). However, such imperfection in the evidence affects only the weight of Mr, Churchill's opinion, and does not have any bearing on its admissibility. Such expert evidence being admissible, it was for the Court to weigh and evaluate it in view of the lack of certainty in the identification of the bullets tested by the expert. (2 Wharton's Criminal Evidence (llth Ed.) sec.992, p.l737j 22 C.J., sec.823, p«73l)»
- 16
iW rolo
(JONHDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(393)
(k)	- The Court requested and secured accused’s service record prior to making its findings (R.lOO). This was irregular (M.C.M., par.79> pp.65,66). A copy of the service record is attached to the record of trial and it reveals accused was sentenced to restriction of one month at hard labor and forfeiture of $13.00 for like period by a special court-martial on 27 May 1941 for loitering on post. The irregularity of securing the service record which included an "outlawed" prior conviction, cannot have prejudiced accused’s rights in the face of the evidence of his guilt (AW 37).
(l)	- The President of the Court usurped authority (AW 31) bv ruling on a number of interlocutory questions (R.14,16,60,61,62,70,94). However, neither the accused nor any member of the Court objected to such practice or the President's rulings. On their merits the rulings were either correct or pertained to immaterial matters. Consequently no prejudice to rights of accused resulted from this irregular procedure.
(m)	- The witness, Reed, testified that upon reaching deceased, as he lay upon the ground after being shot, that the witness asked deceased what was wrong with him. The deceased pointed to the accused (who was standing near the tree at the parking area) and said "that corporal shot me" (R.57). This declaration of deceased was clearly part of the res gestae and was properly admissible in evidence. (U.C.M.,
par.115b, p.118,- CM 193895 (1930), Dig.0ps.JAG., 1912-1940, par.395(24), p,2l6).
6.	The court properly overruled a motion of defense counsel (R.91) to change the charge against accused "from a violation of the 92nd Article of War to a violation of the 93rd Article of War" for reasons (if any) very vaguely outlined but suggesting the hope of inducing the court to reduce the charge to manslaughter. Such a change was properly left by the court to be considered when it deliberated on its findings.
(CM: ET0 439, Nicholson).
Independent of such procedural detail the evidence of the prosecution at this stage of the trial clearly established the crime of murder and not manslaughter. There was no evidence that accused had acted under the influence of anger or heat of passion provoked by deceased, Contrawise there was substantial evidence that accused shot deceased wantonly and with malice aforethought. The denial of the motion was not only proper but the granting of same would have been gros3 error. (CM: ET0 72, Jacobs and Farley: CM: ET0 82, McKenzie).
7.	"Murder, at common law is the unlawful killing, by • a person of sound memory and discretion, of any
reasonable creature in being and under the peace of the State, with malice aforethought either express or implied," (Winthrop's Military Law &
Precedents, p.672; 1928 M.C.M., par.148, p.l62j 1 Wharton's Cr. Law, par.419, p.625).
- 17 -
uuNribENTlAJ.
(394)
liUN'r IUUHIIAL
«**** a deliberate intent to kill must exist at the moment, when the act of killing is perpetrated to render the homicide murder. Such intent may be inferred tinder the rule that everyone is presumed to intend the natural consequence of his act."(l Wharton's Cr. Law,’ 12th Ed., sec.420, p.633).
"Malice aforethought may exist when the act is unpremeditated. It may mean any one or more of the following states of mind preceding or coexisting with the act or omission by which death is caused: an intention to cause the death of or grievous.bodily harm to, any person, whether such person is the person actually killed or not (except when the death is inflicted in the heat of a 13k passion, caused by adequate provocation); knowledge that the act which causes death will probably cause the death of, or grivous bodily harm to, any person, whether such person is the person actually killed or not, although such knowledge is accompanied by indifference whether death or grievous bodily harm is caused or not or by a wish that it may not be caused; *****.''
(1928	par.148a, p.163; 18 AIR 917).
Deceased was a sentry on duty. Accused, with his stolen gun, apparently impatient to try it out and without the aid or instigation of others, deliberately, in cold blood at a distance of only four to six feet, and without warning, shot deceased fatally in the back and then as deceased was falling, accused fired additional shots, "I can't remember the number", into the deceased's body. The homicide was wanton, deliberate, malicious and cruel. All of the elements constituting the crime of murder were established beyond any doubt. The findings of the court are not only supported by substantial evidence, but are also the only findings which could be honestly and consistently made from the evidence. (CM 221640. Loner: CM ETO 255, Cobb; CM ETO 268, Ricks:
CM ETO 292, Mickles: CM ETO 422, Green). There are no mitigating or extenuating circumstances in connection with the killing.
The Theater Judge Advocate in his review of the record of trial pertinently and appropriately comments:	"Under the circumstances of this
case, a bullet fired into the back could not have been fired in self-defense. The accused, an escapee from confinement, having wrongfully possessed himself of a weapon which he greatly desired and being about to depart from the scene of such taking, found himself confronted by a representative of lawful authority. The accused was a trained soldier of almost two years experience. With a blast of gunfire he removed what must haVe seemed a possible obstacle to his cpntinued freedom of action and possession of the weapon he coveted, warded off pursuit with further fire, and continued his flight. The killing was not in any degree, attributable to frailty of youth. It was an act of cold savagery."
CONFJDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(395)
8. Accused pleaded guilty- to Charge II and its Specification, Independent of such plea the evidence fully establishes his guilt thereof.
9, Accused is 20 years of age. He completed eight years in grammar school and three years in high school and has had approximately two years of army service. Attached to the record of trial is a clemency plea based upon the youth of accused only, signed by five of the seven members of the court who were present during the entire proceedings, and by the prosecution and defense counsel.
10, The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the accused and the offenses charged. The sentence is legal. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
■> \7
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
2 S
0
nruinn
uUiNrlu
ENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(396)
1st Ind. •
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 11 Jl/N 1943 General, ETO, U. S. Army, APO 887.
1.	In the case of Private HAROLD ADOLPHUS SMITH (14045090), Headquarters and Headquarters Company, First Tank Destroyer Group, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50g-, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	The recommendation for clemency by members of the court is not easily understood. A death sentence requires a unanimous vote, hence each member must have voted for it in this case. But the death sentence was not mandatory; and the youth of accused, the ground for the recommendation, was known at the time. For members voluntarily to vote for a death sentence and then immediately to recommend that some one else commute it smacks of a lack of courage of their convictions. Such a recommendation must fail to impress.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 438. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 438).
'Assistant Judge Advocate uenerax.
Incls
Holding of Board of Review,
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMQ 9, ETO, 16 Jun 1943)
#(397)
