#(385)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW . -'
ETO 1535
UNITED STATES )
•	)
v.	)
)
Private JANES J. COOPER	)
(3A143132), Company	A,	39th )
Infantry.	)
)
■ 8 MAR 1944
9TH INFANTEX DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Cefalu, Sicily, 4 September 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total -forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
HOLDING by the BOARD QF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	-of	the	93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In that Private James J. Cooper,
34143132, Company "A", 39th Infantry, did, near Cefalu, Sicily, on or about August 27, .
1943, assault Sergeant Keith M. Gilman,
36217351, Company "A1*, 39th Infantry, with intent to commit murder, by shooting him in the chest with a U.S. Army pistol, calibre .45.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence of previous convictions was not available as the accused’s service record had been forwarded to NATOUSA. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and -to be confined -at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for 20 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, as the place of confinement, directed that the prisoner be held at Oran, Algeria pending further orders and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50%,
- 1 -
(386)
3.	The evidence for the prosecution was substantially as follows:
On 27 August 1943, accused, with other soldiers, had been •’on pass" in Palermo, Sicily. At 7:00 p.m. all of them started for camp in trucks (R5). The convoy commander, Second Lieutenant Jack L. Bivins, Company A, 39th Infantry, rode in the front seat of the- truck immediately in rear of _ that, in which accused was riding. On the trip, Bivins noticed two men "scuffling" in the truck ahead and recognized these men as accused and Sergeant Keith LI. Gilman. Accused had struck Technician Fourth Grade Paul Theophilos who. had returned the blow. Sergeant Gilman, with the aid of Sergeant Robert Twaddle, had stopped the fight, pinned accused on the floor of the truck and held him there (Rll). Accused then threatened to kill both Sergeant Gilman and Sergeant Waddle. About ten minutes after this occurrence, the trucks stopped and Lieutenant Bivins ordered accused to transfer to Bivin's truck, which, after some delay, he did. The convoy moved out again, later stopped and accused told Lieutenant Bivins, "You can get a firing squad ready for sunrise" because he- (accused) was going to kill Sergeant Gilman (R6-7). Upon his return to camp, which was approximately 9:45 p.m. (R15), accused procured a .45 calitye United States Army pistol, and went to Sergeant Gilman's tent (R17). He asked Gilman "Can you face it?". Without further words or action he shot Gilman in the chest. Sergeant Waddle who witnessed the shooting, stated that accused as he approached Gilman walked steadily. He held the pistol close to his body and chest-high when he pulled the trigger from a distance of about two feet from Gilman (R14). Waddle was of the opinion that accused was "slightly" drunk, his opinion being based upon "the way he handled himself in the truck, with the truck running and him standing up and the way he had gotten from the truck to the bivouac area" (R13). However, Waddle, who was not more than eight feet away from the accused when he fired the shot, testified that accused's actions at that time did not indicate any drunkenness (R13-14). In Lieutenant Bivins' opinion, the accused was not drunk (R8). At the time of the scuffling incident in the truck, Theophilos was of the opinion that accused was drunk because "he was passing the bottle of wine around, air, and he was just practically flopping all over the truck" (Rll).
While in front of his aid station at approximately 9*45 p.m., Captain Heinrich W. Kohlmoo3, Battalion Surgeon, 1st Battalion,- 39th Infantry, heard a shot which was immediately followed- by a groan and a cry of "Medics". With a litter and his aid men he went immediately in the direction of the sound, found Gilman lying on his back and groaning. He examined GiLman and found "a penetrating wound of his right chest and in the middle portion of his back just to the left of the midline", gave him sedation, dressed the wounds andv"turned him over to the ambulance" (R19). At about 10:30 p.m., he examined the accused for sobriety.' He believed accused had been drinking but he was not drunk. In Captain Kohlmoos' opinion, accused was then in full control-of his faculties, his speech being coherent, his coordination good, and his gait normal (R20).
(387)
At the 11th Evacuation Hospital where Sergeant Gilman was taken by ambulance, Captain Ralph LI. Stuck examined him at about 24.00 hours and found him totally paralyzed below the level of the chest. All spinal nerves had been severed by the shot at the level in the spine between the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebral interspace. As a result of this injury, Gilman will never be able to move his legs or move his bowels or' urinate properly. "This injury, with the resulting paralysis and other items specified above, is likely to.be the indirect cause of this man's death, within a year". Such cases usually "don't last more than a year" (R21-22).
4.	The defense offered no evidence. Accused elected to remain silent.
5.	Accused was charged with and convicted of an assault with intent to murder. This offense is an assault "aggravated by the concurrence of a specific intent to murder" (Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par.149 1, p.178). Both an assault and battery were proved by competent evidence.
The only question worthy of comment is whether at the time of the shooting there was in the accused's mind,4as evidenced by word or deed, the specific intent to murder. More specifically, did the accused, without justification or excuse, intend to kill Sergeant Gilman with malice aforethought?. Appropriate and cogent to this question is the following generally accepted principles	...
"While a specific intent to kill is anjessen-tial ingredient of the offense of assault with intent to commit murder, 'this requirement does not exact an intent, other than an intent which is inferrable from the circumstances. .So while the intent cannot be implied as a matter of law, it may be inferred as a fact from the surrounding circumstances, such as the unlawful use of a deadly weapon, provided it was used in such a manner as to indicate an intention to kill, or from an act of violence from which, in the usual and ordinary course of things, death or great bodily harm may result. Other circumstances which may be considered as bearing upon the . propriety of an inference of intent are: The character of the assault, the nature or extent of the'wound^or injury, the presence or absence of excusing^and-qjalliating facts or circumstances, and prior threats" (30 C.J., sec.165, p.2l).
Within an hour or two prior to the assault, accused had threatened to kill Gilman. Upon arriving at his company's bivouac area, he procured a United States Arms'- pistol, .45 calibre, deliberately sought and found his
intended victim and, at a distance of not more than a few feet, discharged it at Gilman's chest, wounding him so seriously that the medical testimony . indicates that he will probably die within a year from the indirect effects ' of this wound. There were no circumstances present which would either justify, excuse or alleviate the offense. The intent to murder was proved by competent and most convincing testimony (CM ETO 78, Watts).
In the opinion of the Board of Review, the record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of assault with intent to , commit murder.
6.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 21 years and 3 months of age and carries this notation: "No prior service. Current Enlistment: Inducted at (Service Record not available. To be entered at the earliest date) on the 11th day July, 1941."
7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. The sentence to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement- at hard labor for 20 years, for assault with intent to murder in violation of Article of War 93* is authorized (Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, sec.10-4c, p.99). Confinement in a United States Disciplinary Barracks is authorized. However, confinement
in the United States Penitentiary,; Lev/isburg, Pennsylvania is also authorized (AW 12; sec.276 Federal Criminal Code, 18 U S C A*155; ,WD, Cir.' #291, sec.V, pars.3a and b, 10 November 1913).' •'	'	\*V \	'	V-	.	•	'	;
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL) i Judge Advocate
1st Ind
(389)
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. " ® MAR 1944	T0.	Commanding
General, 9th Infantry Division, APO 9, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private JAMES J. COOPER (34143132), Company A, 39th infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of Y/ar 50? you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	Attention i3 invited to the designated place of confinement, v/hich should be changed to the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York (VJD, Cir. #210, sec.VI, par.2a, 14 September 1943 as amended by WD, Cir. #331, sec.II, par.2, 21 December 1943). This may be done in the published general court-martial order.
However, the accused was found guilty of a deliberate, unprovoked assault with intent to commit murder. No facts appear in mitigation or amelioration of his crime. Section 276 of the Federal Criminal Code (18 U S C A 455) denounces said offense and prescribes a maximum punishment of twenty years confinement in a penitentiary. Therefore, penitentiary confinement is authorized in this case (AW 42; Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par.90, p.80). I believe the place of confinement of accused should be changed to the United States Penitentiary,.Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. This can be done % a supplemental action which should be forwarded to this office for attachment to the record of trial. Prior to promulgation of the court-martial order executing the sentence the reviewing authority possesses the requisite power to effect this modification of his prior action (Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par.87b, p.78; Manual for Courts-Martial 1921, par.387, p,320).
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETQ 1535. For convenience of reference please place that number, in brackets at the end of the orders I (ETO 1535) V
E. C. IfcNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
#(391)
