#(31)
WAR DEPARTMENT In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations.
APO 871
Board of Review ETO 72
UNITED STATES v.
Private HERBERT G. JACOBS, (13056622), Company H, 13th Armored Regiment, and Private EUBRA H. FARLEY, (37101923), Company H, 13th Armored Regiment.
FIRST ARMORED DIVISION
NOV 5 1942
Trial by G. C. M. convened at Castelwellan, County Down,
Northern Ireland. October 9, 19U2. DD. TF, and CHL for ten years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
OPINION of THE BOARD 0? REVIEW,
PITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocate.
1.	The Board of Review has examined the record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above and submits this, its opinion, to the Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused were tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	92nd Article vof ’Tar.
Specification:	In that Private Embra Farley, Company H,
13th Armored Regiment, and Private Herbert G. Jacobs,
Company H, 13th Armored Regiment, acting jointly and in pursuance of a common intent, did at Aghalee, Northern Ireland, on or about 2lst of September, 19^2, with malice aforethought, wilfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation, kill, Edward Clenaghan, a human being, by striking him on the head and body with their fists, a helmet or some unknown blunt instrument.
Each of the accused pleaded not guilty to the Charge aid Specification.
Of the Specification each accused was found guilty, except the words "with malice aforethought", "deliberately and with premeditation"; of the exeepted words, not guilty. Of the Charge, each accused was found not guilty, but guilty of the 93rd Article of War. No evidence of previous
72
convictions of either of the accused was introduced. Each was sentenced to dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances* due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for ten years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War
3.	At Soldierstown, A&halee, Northern Ireland, prior to and on 21 September, 19l*2, dwelt a Mrs. Clenaghan and her family consisting of. her two sons, James Joseph and Edward, and her daughter Winefred (R.19, 20, 23, 2^). Mrs. Clenaghan owned and operated a licensed public house (R.20, 23), located at the intersection of the main Aghalee-Moira road with a cross road which also leads to Moira (R.I4.8).
The family dwelling quarters were in the rear of the tap-room (R.20, 21*).
Mrs. Clenaghan's children were adults knd unmarried (R.20, 25). James Joseph was a farmer (R.23). Edward, age 1*7 years, previously was a cripple on crutches (R.25), having been afflicted with hip-joint disease (R.27),- but had recovered sufficiently so that he could ride a bicycle (R.27). He assisted in the operation of the public house (R.25).
The accused were members of Company H, 13th Armored Regiment. On and prior to 21 September, 19l*2, a detachment of this Company was bivouacked in a field adjacent to the public road leading from the public house to Aghalee (R.7). Across the road from the bivouac was a cow barn, where on the evening of that date, the accused were billetted (R.5, 7).
On the evening of 21 September, 19U2, the accused and other members of Company H were visiting in the Clenaghan public house (R.8, 20), and consumed a considerable amount of intoxicating liquor (R.20, 21). The bar was closed at 9 p.m. and the patrons of the public house were requested to leave (R.23). With the exception of the accused all of them left in an orderly manner (R.8, 23), and departed for their camp (R.9, 23). The accused remained and demanded that they be served additional alcoholic beverages (R.8, 20, 23), but finally were prevailed upon to leave (R.8), and the public room was closed (R.20, 23). When accused left, they took with them some half-pint bottles of stout (R.21, Ex.A). The stout made the bottles appear black in color (R.21). - The accused were the last of the soldiers to leave the bar room (R.2o, 23), but remained in the road in front of the public house (R.9).
At about 9.15 p.m. Mrs. Clenaghan, James Joseph, Edward and Winefred were in the kitchen at the rear of the bar room (R.20, 23).
They heard the sound of breaking glass (R.20, 23, 21*), and of foot-steps of men running (R.21*). James Joseph investigated and found that one of the windows in the bar room had been broken (R.20, 2l*, 25, 1*1*).
Discovering no one in the_ bar (R.21*), he went out on to the road and a short distance from the public house in the direction of Aghalee (R.21*), . he encountered accused (R.2l*). He remonstrated with them, but they demanded more drink (R.2l*), and waved two beer bottles at him (R.2l*).
James Joseph urged them to go up the road stating that they might be able to find drink elsewhere (R.21*). He. returned to the hall door entering the bar room and accused followed him part way demanding more drink.
(33)
Eventually they Trent up the road, and James Joseph returned to the kitchen,.R.2U), where he found that hi's' brother Edward had left on his bicycle (1.21, 22, 2)|), at about 9.19 or 9.20 p.m. to report to the commanding officer of the American Camp on the road (R.2o).
At approximately mid-ni-'ht (21-22 September, 19a2) Edward Clenaghan ti as discovered lying on the left hand, side of the road leading to Aghalee, about three-tenths (.3) mile distant from the public house (R.27, 28, 29, 39). His head was in the ditch at the road side (1.29, 29), and his legs and feet projected on to the traveled part of the road (1.29, 29). The witness, Ilendron, (P..27), who made the discovery, stooped a passing motorist and requested that he summon the constabulary (It.28). Constable HcFarland arrived, at about 12.29 a.m.,
22 September, 19h2 (R.29, 29). Edward Clenaghan was unconscious. He had a lacerated wound over his left eye brow two inches long, Iris left eye was blue and he had a lacerated wound on the lower side of his chin (R.29, 31). They removed him to the Lurgan hospital in a motor lorry (R.29), where, without regaining consciousness, he died at 7.02 a.m.,
22 September, 19ii2, as a result of a banal fracture of the skull (R.32).
The fracture could have been caused by a bottle, blunt instrument or the edge of a’soldier's helmet (R.31).
There was found, scattered on the Aghalee road within three or four feet of the body of the deceased, pieces of broken glass from mineral water or soft drink bottles (R.29, 30). About ten yards from where deceased lay there was also found a pint sized tumbler or water glass (R.29). This tumbler was identified by ’.Tinefred Clenaghan as being one belonging to and used in her mother's licensed public house (R.21, 22).
U. The accused, Farley, on 17 September, 19U2 was suffering from an attack of pharyngitis, an infection of the throat membranes (R.l$. Pharyngitis may develope into laryngitis, an inflammation of the larynx, which is indicated by hoarsness or huskiness of the voice (R.U)•
Between 0 p.m. and 8.30 p.m., 21 September, 19^2 Corp. Fred. G. Russell, Co. H., 13th Armored Regiment went to the billet of accused and left verbal orders that they were to report at mid-night to go on guard. They failed to report on post (R.9, 6). Both of them left the billet at dusk on the evening of 21 September, 19i|2. By mid-night neither had returned, but accused Jacobs returned to the bille c, and went to bed sometime between mid-night and 2 a.m., 22 September, 19h2 (R.7$.
Accused Farley did not return to the billet (R.7).
Shortly after 9 p.m. on 21 September, 19^2, too persons, taken by him to be American soldiers, stopped at the home of a Mr. Smylie, located on the Aghalee road about 100 yards in the direction of Aghalee from Clenaghan's licensed public house (R.ljJLj.), and asked for a drink of water.
He gave them water and noted that one of them who was very hoarse wore an oil-skin coat (R.UU, U5).
The soldiers left Smylie at about 9.19 p.m. and went up the road towards Aghalee .
72
(34)
George Henry Hendron, a civilian (R.l;7), at about 9-h$ p.ra. on the same evening encountered an American soldier, clad in a glazed water-proof coat at Aghalee, who enquired in a hoarse voice as to where he could be taken in for the night (R.U8).
At about 10.10 or 10.15 p.m., the accused Farley was seen sitting on a stone wall at Aghalee village comer by Sergeant Robert Stewart Smith who was in charge of the barracks of the R.U.C. at Aghalee (R.U3).
I-t is 2.2 miles from the R.U.C. Barracks to the Clenaghan public house (R.UU, U8). Farley was under the influence of drink; his voice was "very, very bad"; and he had his helmet in his hand (R.U3). He said he had been on manoeuvers,'but had become lost from his party (R.l;3).
The constabulary sergeant suggested that Farley telephone from the barracks for transportation (R.U3) which Farley did about 10.b? p.ra.
He appeared to have been drinking liquor but was not drunk. His voice was very hoarse, and he seemed to have a cold in his throat (R.19).
Army transportation was provided (Ex. B) and he was taken to the camp . of the 8lst Reconnaissance where he remaindd for the night (R.17), being still very hoarse the next morning (R.17).
James E. Beckett, a civilian, at about 9.30 p.m., 21 September, 19^2, encountered an American soldier on the Aghalee road about one-half mile from the Clenaghan public house in the direction of Aghalee. After enquiring where he could find a wine lodge the soldier struck Beckett on the nose (R.l5) with something hard, felling him into a hedge (R.U6). Hendron, the civilianwitness before mentioned, prior to his meeting with the soldier wearing a "glazed water-proof coat", encountered another American soldier who had fallen over a bicycle. This soldier stated he was drunk 3nd he had to go about 30 miles. This encounter occurred between 9.30 p.m. and 9.U5 p.m. (R.l;7)
At about 11.30 p.m., 21 September, 19U2, an American soldier called at the home of William R. McKeown who was lock-keeper on the canal and a member of the special constabulary at Aghalee. He had been preceded in the ?icKeown home by Mathew Wilson, Sr. and Thomas Chapman (R..32, 38).
The McKeown house is near the canal which crosses the Aghalee road immediately below Aghalee and about l.U miles from the Clenaghan public house (R.U9). After drinking stout and tea the four men - the soldier, McKeown, Wilson and Chapman - left the McKeown house and walked to the Wilson house which is situate on the Aghalee road going from the McKeown house in the direction of the Clenaghan public house (R.33, 36). McKeown walked with Chapgian and Wilson walked with the soldier (R.33, 38). The latter pair walked under a horse walk arch under a canal bridge. The former couple passed over the bridge on the road (R.33, 3h, 38). In the horse walk arch was a bicycle (R.33, 3h, 38), which the soldier presented to Wilson (R.33, 3H, 38, Uo), who rode it to his home (R.33, 3U, 36). The four men entered the Wilson house (R.33, 3U, 36, 38,. !;()), where the soldier displayed card tricks to them and Mrs. Wilson (R.33, 3h 38, UO). Chapman, Mathew Wilson, Sr. and firs. Wilson, Sr. in their testimony positively identified accused, Jacobs, as the soldier involved in this transaction (R.3U, 38, 1|0), as did Mathew Wilson, Jr. (R.36).
The last named person arrived at the home of his father, Mathew Wilson,
Sr. while the soldier. Chapman and McKeown were present with his
72
(35)
father and mother (R.3o, 1*0, 1*1), and he informed them that Edward Clenaghan had been found "near dead" on the road (R.36, ij.0, hi). The soldier, Jacobs, (as identified by Chapman, Wilson, Sr.,
Mrs. Wilson, Sr., and Wilson, Jr.) asked "-which way, out towards Aghalee?" (R.36, 1;1). Wilson, Jr. replied; "No, down there", pointing towards Clenaghan's public house (R, 36, 39, 1*1). Wilson, Jr. identified, while on the witness stand at the trial, the bicycle which had previously been admitted in evidence {Ex. E) as the bicycle he found at liis father's home on the night in question (E.37, 1*0) and which he advised his father to deliver to the constabulary (R.37). Wilson, Sr. also identified the bicycle as the one given to him by Jacobs {R. 1*0). The soldier, Jacobs, left the Wilson home about 12.30 a.m. 22 September, 19l*2 (R.37, 39) accompanied by Wilson, Sr. who walked with him for a half mile up the road to the armored vehicle of the soldiers (R.39). While at the Wilson home, the soldier wore a helmet (R.3d, 1*1). Mrs. Wilson testified tnere was a spot of blood on the helmet (R.i*l) and three or four dents in it (R.l*2) and that there.was also a spot of blood on the left sleeve of the overalls worn by the soldier (R.l*2). The soldier, Jacobs, informed Mrs. Wilson that he had been fighting with "one of my own chaps and fighting with a man like my husband" (R.I*2).
The bicycle, introduced in evidence and identified as "Exhibit E", was delivered by Wilson, Sr. at 2 a.m. 22 September, 19l*2 to Special Constable Samuel Mcfeown at the R.U.C. barracks (R.18). After it was introduced in evidence, it was positively identified as being the property of the deceased, Edward Clenaghan, by his sister, Winefred (R.21), and his brother James Joseph (R.26).
A soldier's helmet was also introduced in evidence and was identified as "Exhibit C" (R.ll*).	It was worn by the accused, Jacobs,
at the time of his arrest '(R.ll*).	There are four dents in the helmet:
one directly in the high front center, one right front, one almost directly on top and one in the left rear (R.15).
6.	The accused, Farley, was placed under arrest on -the morning of 22 September, 19l*2 (R.ll) at the location of the 8lst Reconnaissance. At that time he was dressed in combat suit, wore his helmet, and was very hoarse (R.17)*. He was under suspicion, not accusation and was duly warned concerning his rights to speak or remain silent (R.ll).
On 23 September, 19l*2, after receiving a like warning (R.10, 11, 12, 13) he elected to make a written statement (R.ll, 12), which was introduced in evidence as Exhibit A" (R.ll*). After Charges wore filed and the case was in process of investigation under A. w. 70, accused Earley made a further statement on 3 October, 19i*2, having previously received the warning required by par. 35 M. C. M. (P..16). . The statement was reduced to writing and admitted in evidence as "Exhibit D" ; E.luj.
The accused, Jacobs, was arrested also on suspicion (R.10) separate and .apart from accused, Farley, at the camp of his battalion (R.13) on 22 September, 191*2 (R.ll). On 2h September, 19l*2, he was questioned by Major Joseph H. Kifer, F.A., Lurgan, N.I., in the presence of Capt. Barry W. League, 13th Armored Regiment, and Sgt. Donald W. John, 205th Military Police Company, Lurgan Detachment, after being first fully advised of his rights in answering questions (R.10, 13)- . • The examination was taken
2349QQ
72
stenographically; reduced -to writing; signed by Jacobs and was acini tied in evidence as "Exhibit E" (R.13). Thereafter when the . case was under investigation, after filing of charges, Jacobs, after being warned as to his rights to talk or remain silent, made the same declaration as did Farley but stated he could not remember any facts to make a farther statement (R.16).
Each of the accused before making his statement had been informed that Edward Clenaghan was dead and that they were under suspicion of murdering him (R.12). Major Kifer, stated to each of the accused, prior to the making of their respective statements, that while they did not have to make a statement it would -ease their minds if they told what they knew about the case (F.10, 12, 13). No promise of leniency or threats were made to either of accused (R.10, 12, 13).
7.	The battalion of which the accused Jacobs was a member was held in ranks after breakfast on 22 September, 19^2. Mathew V.'ilson, Sr. identified Jacobs as the soldier who was with him the preceding evening and who gave him the bicycle (R.15>, 39, hO). At 3 p.m. on 22 September, 19U2, an identification parade of American soldiers was held. Both of the accused were identified by Winefred Clenaghan (R.13), and James Joseph-Clenaghan (R.25) as being the men who were at the Clenaghan public house the evening of 21 September, 19ii-2, and whom James Joseph met on the road after the breaking of the window.
At approximately 12.30 p.m. 22 September, 19U2, both of accused were carefully examined by Major Joseph A Ridgeway, Medical Corps,
Special Troops, V Army Corps, and he founfi no evidence of injuries (R.17). The examination of Farley was repeated by the same medical officer at 12.13 p.m., 23 September, 19U2, and he again found no evidence of injuries. A similar examination of Jacobs,was made by the same officer at 12.30 p.m., 2h September, 19h2 and no evidence of injuries was found.
8.	Both of accused elected to remain silent at-the trial after again having their rights explained to them (R.U9). There isno direct evidence from eye witnesses that the accused inflictea/^njuries upon 'the deceased which caused his death. There can be no doubt that at about 9.13 p.m., 21 September, 19h2, the accused and deceased met upon the public road a short distance from the Clenaghan public house.
The peregrination of each accused from the time of such meeting to the hour of their respective apprehensions is traced with accurateness as
to time, incident and place. N Each episode involving accused, happening as they progressed separately up the road towards Aghalee, after the time during which the assault upon deceased must have occurred, cogently proves the ultimate fact that they were the persons who inflicted the fatal injuries upon the deceased. Farley's hoarse voice and his oilskin coatj the unprovoked assault upon the civilian, Hendron by an American soldier; Jacobs' possession of the deceased's bicycle and his gift of same to Wilson, Sr. together with his ownership of a dented and blood-spotted helmet and blood-spotted uniform; the positive identification of each accused by disinterested civilians, and the finding of the Clenaghan tumble^o**. gl^ss'wt the •	qfi tie fight,
.	^	r':	t? ’**■' ft *'') & ■*’	f H M	if
(37)
are facts beyond dispute. Y/hen they are considered in connection with the time element and the movements of each accused during the night, they present a composite picture and lead to the conclusion that the accused not only encountered the deceased but also fatally assaulted him. £ further detailed examination of the evidence on this point is unnecessary. Its recital is sufficient.
9.	The rulings of the Court admitting in evidence Farley's two statements of 23 September, 19U2, and 3 October, 19U2, and the transcription of Jacobs' examination and interrogation of 2U, September, 19U2, (E1U, 16, Exs. A. B. D), were free-from error or prejudice to the accused. The prosecution laid the necessary foundation for the introduction of Farleys' statements and Jacobs' answers to the oral interrogatories propounded to him (R.9 - 16). It is clear that each of the accused received proper and timely warnings of their rights when so questioned, and that no compulsion was used upon nor leniency was offered to either of them. Major KiferS' statements to them "that it would ease their minds if they told what they knew about the case" and "that it might be best for them to get it off their minds" (R.10) must be considered in the light of circumstances under which they were made. In view of previous or simultaneous warnings tcyfche. accused concerning their rights to remain silent, it is not possible
to construe these statements of Major Kifer as constituting either threats or bribes. They were expressions to them of the opinion of the officer that if the accused spoke honestly and frankly they would experience more tranquility of mind. They were but "casual remarks or indefinite expressions" and as such cannotte regarded as having inspired hope or fear" (M. C. M. sec. llha, pg. 116).
"It is well settled that a confession will not be excluded because of a mere exhortation or adjuration to speak the truth. On the question whether an exhortation accompanied by an expression that it would be better for' accused to speak the truth is sufficient to exclude a confession, the authorities are divided, some holding that it is, and others that it is not. The real question is whether the language used in regard to speaking the truth, when taken in connection with the attending circumstances and with other language spoken in the same or in some prior interview, shows that the confession was made under the influence of some threat or promise, the confession being inadmissible where it was made under such influence, and being admissible where no threat or inducement mas made or offered,"(16 C.J.9. lU?6, pg. 721).
$ee also:	2	YJharton's	Criminal Evidence, sec. 62U, •
pg. IOI46)
10.	The evidence concerning the actions of each of the accused on the evening of 21 September, 19^4-2, together with proof of Edward Clenaghan's death are sufficient proof of the corpus•delicti to permit the use of the confession;
"If unlawful homicicle is c^ang-ad, ^evi^Aenc-e-of the.;
death of the person alleged to have been killed coupled with evidence of circumstances indicating the probability that he was unlawfully killed, will satisfy the rule and authorize consideration of the confession if otherwise admissible".
(H. C. I.', sec. llUa, pg. 113).
"It has been said that the corroboration of an extrajudicial confession is met if the additional evidence is sufficient to convince the jury that the crime charged is real, and not imaginary; and again, that it is sufficient if the independent evidence establishes the corpus delicti to a probability.
In the last analysis however, the sufficiency of the corroboration of a confessibn must .depend on the circumstances of each case, always having in view that the essentials of the crime must be established beyond a reasonable doubt!1 (2 Yiharton's Criminal Evidence (11th Ed.) sec. 6ijl, pg. 1073). (cf. Isaacs vs. United States, 15>9 U. S. 1*87;
U0 L. Ed. 229).
11.	Inasmuch as the confessions of the accused were legally admitted in evidence and are.part of the prosecution's case it is desirable to consider the effect of same in connection with other evidence in the case. Farleys' confessions were admissible as against him but not as against Jacobs. Jacobs' answers to the questions propounded to him, being in fact a confession, were admissible as against him, but not as against Farley. (!«. C. M. sec. llUc, pg. 117;	2	Wharton's	Criminal Evidence, sec. 7lU, pg. 120U). It
should also be observed that the declaration or confession of one co-defendant that, he alone committed the offense with which both are charged is not admissible in favor of the other defendant. (16 Corpus Juris, sec. 13i;0, pg. 670;	2	'Wharton's	Criminal Evidence, sec. 722,
pg. 1213). The court was at liberty in applying each confession to the accused making it, to believe all or any part of it. It was its function to weigh and evaluate it, and reconcile it with the other evidence in the case against the confessor- (excluding of course the confession of the co-defendant). The determination of the reliability of each accused in making his statement, and the truth or falsity of each confession were matters within the exclusive province of the Court. Y»hile each of the accused elected to remain silent and did not appear on the witness stand, their presence in the court room afforded the Court the opportunity of observing their demeanour and conduct and forming an opinion as to their respective mentalities and moral statures. (2 YTharton's Criminal Evidence, sec. 6pg.1078).
12.	The pertinent details of the, fatal encounter, as narrated by Jacobs are as follows:
"After we broke the glass, we went up and got a drink of water, we- goes on up the road and meets this guy. He gets off his bicycle, we were_
(39)
there talking about something— I am telling you the truth now I don' t know just, what was said, but any how, the next thing I know me and him, me and this guy, was over in the ditch and he was on top of me. He whs on top of me and I kicked him off. I was laying with my head right on an angle of the ditch. He was on top of me and I kicked him off. TUhen I got back off, he grabbed me around like this (both arms around the waist) and my helmet flew off and I grabbed my helmet and hit him with that. After we quit fighting, I picked the man up and asked him if he could get where he was going. I didn’t know the man.**HHt»(pg. l. Ex.' 3)
"Me and this man was laying in the ditch.Yes (the man was on top of me) and I kicked him off.
I	dr awed my feet off and kicked him off. TiThan I got up and started to get on the bank, he grabbed me around like this (both arras around the waist) and we went down again:	I	don't know how I got
up then. Anyhow, I know my helmet came off and I hit him with my helmet. I didn't hit him no four or five times -with that helmet", (pg. 2, Ex.B)
"When I hit him with the helmet I was up on my knees and got back against the bank. I had this arm back against the bank when I hit him. It was kind of a little ditch and I was up on ray knees when I hit him. I didn't hit him very hard and I didn't hit him but once with it." (pg.!?, Ex.B).
«
The accused, Jacobs, in his answers to the interrogatories, admits that Farley was present when the conversation with deceased commenced, but declares he never saw Farley strike deceased (pg.l, Ex.3); declares he did not hear Farley tell deceased he (Farley) would pay for the broken bar-room window (pg. 3, 6, Ex.B); declares that he has no memory that the cost of whisky was under discussion (pg. 6, Ex.3); declares he has no memory of deceased stating that the "Americans thought they ought to get everything for nothing" (pg. 7, Ex.B)j denies that he (Jacobs) told deceased that he (Jacobs) was man enough to whip the whole of Northern Ireland (pg. 7, Ex.B), amj&eclares he did not remember deceased saying to Farley that he (deceased) "would cut his bloody throat" (pg. 7, Ex.B).
# Farley's recital of the critical incidents of the fight is as follows:
this man said we had gone far enough and he put his hand in his pocket and said:	"I	will	cut
your bloody throats', and I hit him with my fist, and Jacobs started swinging at him with his steel helmet and I heard the helmet Hitting something, end I turned and took off up the road as I was
-	-	      ^	   i	■	m	if.	?	irt'-'v-.l	?*
•72
Uo)
afraid he might have a gun and shoot. *#■» (Ex.A).
and he said we had gone far enough and put his hand in his pocket and said 'I'll cut your bloody throats'. He stepped towards us and I"shoved him back. He throwed up his left hand when I shoved him back. Jacobs aaid:	'let	me	have	him', and he
struck him with his helmet but didn't knock him dorm. And I told Jacobs 'to let him alone' and not have any trouble with him, to let's go. And I turned and started off and Jacobs told me 'to go on' and he'd come bn when he got ready. And I left and went up the roadyHHt- j[Sx.D).
In connection with the confessions of- accused it is necessary to consider the testimony of Dr. James O'Connel, the House Physician of Lurgan and Portadown District Hospital, vjha attended deceased, and who was qualified to speak as an expert. He described deceased's injuries thus:
"I found a lacerated wound over his left eye brow, one two inches long and blackened bruises of the upper left, the right pupil was dilated and fixed, the left contracted, neither responded to light. Lacerated wound to the left side of the chin, there was dried blood around the nostrils due to external wound. The cause of death was cerebral laceration following fracture of the skull. The patient was unconscious anddiii not regain consciousness, his pulse was slow and binding, and there were no internal signs of injury" (R.31).
The doctor further testified that the injuries were due to a blow -direct violence; that a fist might have caused it and any blunt instrument could have caused it (P..31) ; that there were no scratches’ about the injury; that if the helmet ’were used to strike a man its rough surface would probably leave scratches; that the fracture could have been caused by a bottle; that the injuries could not have been caused by the crown of the helmet although the edge may have; that the fact deceased wore a hat when struck would not have prevented the injury (R.31); that the location of the fracture was at the'base of the skull "about the center of the ear but level with the eye" (R.32).
Jacobs' helmet (Ex.C) is the regulation (new style) army helmet.
It has been carefully inspected by the Board of Review and a serious doubt has been raised in the minds of the members thereof that the helmet was the means or instrument by which deceased was killed. The dents in the helmet do not appear to be such as would result from striking the human skull. Rather they appear to have been produced by striking the helmet against a firm, hard, projecting object. Tests made by the Board indicate that a blow on the human skull sufficient to have made the dents would have either seriously lacerated deceased's scalp or crushed the skull bone. However, it is recognized that it is vdthin the realm of possibility for Jacobs to have struck the fatal blow vdth the edge of the helmet, and ..that therefore such theory should not be discarded as an impossibility. •	•	*	s	*	g A g	3	3	-2	ft	i
UD
Farley undoubtedly with his fist struck deceased a severe blow on the side of his head. Dr. O'Cormel states that a fist blow might have caused the fracture. This expert opinion takai with the fact that the fracture was on the side of the head above the ear and level with the eye arouses a strong conjecture that Farley's first blow caused the fracture. In any event such theory should be included in any estimate of the situation.
It therefore appears that it is within the range of reasonable possibility that either Farley or Jacobs, separately could have struck the fatal blow. Further it lies within the realm of logical possibility that the fracture was the result of both Farley's and Jacobs' batteries. It is certain that either one or both of the accused actually inflicted the injury to deceased which caused his death. This homicide is clearly not murder; it is manslaughter beyond all peradventure.
"Manslaughter is distinguished from murder by the absence of deliberation and malice aforethought."
(1 'Wharton's Criminal Law, sec, h23, pg. 61;0).
"Manslaughter is unlawful homicide without malice aforethought and is either voluntary or involuntary."
(M. C. M. sec. ll*9i pg. 165).
"If a sudden quarrel arises, the parties to which fight, upon fair terms either immediately or at a place to which they immediately resort for that purpose, and one of them is killed, the person killing the other, provided he took no unfair advantage, is guilty of man-slaughter and not murder, which ever of them may have struck the first blow." (9 Halsbury's Laws of England (2nd Ed.) sec. 755, pg. UiO; sec. 7h8, pg. 1*36)•
"At common law a killing ensuing frdm sudden transport of passion or heat of blood, if upon sudden combat, was also manslaughter, an<j/the statutory definition of voluntary manslaughter has on some jurisdictions been made expressly to include a killing -without malice in a sudden fray. However, a sudden combat is ordinarily considered upon the same footing as other provocations operating to create 'such passion as temporarily to unseat the judgment." (29 Corpus Juris, sec. Il5j pg. 1128; sec.. 121, pg. 1138).
"Manslaughter at common law was defined to be the unlawful and felonious killing of another without any malice, either express or implied.-shbb*- 11/hether there be what is termed express malice or only implied malice, the proof to show either is of the same nature, viz., the circumstances leading up to and surrounding the killing. The definition of
the crime given by U.5. Rev. Statutes, sec..53^1 is substantially the sane. The proof of homicide, as necessarily involving malice, must sho’.v the. facts under which the killing was effected, and from the whole facts and circumstances surrounding the killing the jury infers malice or its absence. Malice in connection with the crime of killing is but another name for a certain condition of a man's heart or mind, and as no one can look into the heart or mind of another, the only way to decide upon its condition at the time of a killing is to infer it from the surrounding facts and that inference is one of facts for the jury. The presence or absence ’of this malice or mental condition marks, the boundary which separates the two crimes of murder or manslaughter."
(Stevenson v. United States, 162 U.S. 313, 320;
1+0 L. Ed. 900, 963). (Cf:	Jerry	Wallace	v.	United
States, 162 U.S. 1|66, lj.0 L. Ed. 1039; John Brown v.
Unites States, 139 U.S. 100, lt.0 L. Ed. 90).
It was not necessary for the prosecution to prove specifically which of the accused struck the fatal blow. The evidence beyond a reasonable doubt excludes the possibility of any person or persons other than the accused participating in the fight vd.th the deceased at the time and place fixed definitely by the evidence. Likewise any other cause or causes of death except blows inflicted by accused are excluded from consideration. Under circumstances shown by the record in this case Fprley and Jacobs were common and joint participants in the assault and •battery upon deceased and are equally responsible for his death.
"All persons who are present when a crime is committed, and who take part in the actual perpetration of it, or aid or abet thosq who perpetrate it are called principals*"
(9 Halsbury's Laws of England, sec. 27, pg. 28)
"All persons who are actually or constructively present at the time and place of a crime, whether it is a felony or merely a misdemeanor, and who either actually aid, abet, assist, or advise its commission, or are there with that purpose in mind, "to the knowledge of the party actually committing the crime, are guilty as principals in the second degree, although they did not themselves accomplish the purpose." (16 Corpus Juris, sec. 117, pg. 130).
"Where one assailant strikes a blow which is not fatal, and a confederate follows it up with a fatal blow, both are principals in the homicide."
(1 Y/harton's Criminal Law, sec. 233, pg. 3u0)
"-SBKHS- if men join together to break the peace, if in the-course of the transaction a fatal blow is struck> in my opinion that is the'blow of all,.......
72
(43)
although the person before you is not tha man "mho actually struck the blow, he is equally guilty'with the man who actually did it***-*" (Reg. v. Harrington,
5 Cox's Criminal Law Cases, pg. 231).
The Board of Review is therefore of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the finding that both the accused,
Farley and Jacobs, are guilty of voluntary manslaughter.
13.	The sentence of the Courp which have been approved by the reviewing authority/ are legal. The accused, Jacobs, was 22 years 6 months old and the accused Farley, 26 years 6 months old at date of commission of offense. Pursuant to G.O. 37, ETOUSA,
9,September, 19h2, pars. and d, execution of sentence of dishonorable discharge will be ordered only when accused has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable, and when he has also been sentenced to a term of not less than three years confinement. A general prisoner whose approved sentence to confinement is for three years or more may be returned to the United States for the service of such sentence, without express orders Hdqs. ETOUSA. Voluntary manslaughter when committed under the circumstances of this case is an offense which renders the retention of, accused in military service undesirable and inasmuch as confinement is for ten years, the execution of the sentence to dishonorable discharge, and the return of the accused to the United States for service of sentence are proper.
V/ar Department Directive, A.G. 253 (2 - 6 - 1*1) E. 26 February, 19U2, requires prisoners under 31 years of age and with sentences of not more than ten years be confined in a Federal correctional institution or reformatory. The action of the reviewing authority correctly fixes the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement of both accused.
ll+. The Court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and offense involved. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
234999
<U)
1st Ind
WAR DEPARTMENT, Office of The Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, A.P.O. 871, U.S. Array. VQ\f 5
To:	Commanding	General,	1st	Armored	Division,	A.P.O.	2f>l,	U.S.	Army.
1.	In the case of Private Herbert G. Jacobs, (15056622), Company H, 13th Armored Regiment, and Private Embra H. Farley, (37101923), Company H, 13th Armored Regiment I concur in the foregoing holding of the Board of Review. You now have authority to order the execution of the sentence as thus approved.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 72. For convenience of reference, please place that number in brackets at the end of the published order.
(RTO 72)
Judge Advocate uenerau., European Theater of Operations.
#(45)
