#(275)
’ Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1015
UNITED STATES )
)
▼.	)
Private First Class BUSTER	j
BRANHAM (6669557), Battery	)
C, 46th Field Artillery	)
Battalion.	)
22 JAN 1944
5TH INFANTRY DIVISION.
Trial By G.C.M., convened at Tidworth Garrison, England, 13 October 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, suspended, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for ten years. 2912th"Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England.
OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW RHER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1* The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence in part. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.
2. Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 63rd Article of War.
Specification:	In that Private First Class Buster
Branham, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, did, at Tidworth Garrison, England, on or about 28 September 1943, behave himself with disrespect toward Captain Richard D,	•
Martin, Medical Detachment, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, his superior officer, by being contemptuous, surly and unduly familiar.
CHARGE II: Violation of the 64th Article bf War.
Specification 1: In that Private First Class Buster Branham, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, ;having received a lawful command from Second Lieutenant George Dutko, Battery C, ' "*
46th Field Artillery Battalion, his superior officer, to take a hike, did, at Tidworth Garrison, England, on or about 28 September 1943, willfully disobey the same.
- 1 - CONFIDENTIAL
Specification 2:	(Finding of not guilty).
CHARGE IIIi Violation of the 65th Article of War.
(Finding of not guilty).
Specification:	(Finding of not guilty).
4
He pleaded not guilty, and was found guilty of Charge I and-its Specification and of Specification 1, Charge II and Charge II, and not guilty of Specification 2, Charge II and of Charge III and its Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for ten years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement, and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, as the place of confinement.
The proceedings were published in General Court-Martial Orders No. 81, Headquarters 5th Infantry Division, APO 5, c/o Postmaster, New York, New York, i8 November 19A3.
3k Accused was found not guilty of the offense alleged in Specification 2, Charge II (willful disobedience of the lawful command of Lieutenant Wesley, his superior officer, in violation of Article of War 64) and of the offense alleged in the Specification of Charge III (using insubordinate language toward First Sergeant Basil R. Slaughter, a noncommissioned officer who was then in execution of his office in violation of Article of War 65). However, in view of the circumstances surrounding the commission of the offenses of which accused was found guilty, and of the nature of the defense, it is considered necessary to set forth in
substance the evidence pertaining to all charges and specifications.
• *
On the morning of 27 September 1943 First Lieutenant Clark Wesley, commanding officer of accused's organization, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, was observing the battery which had fallen out for dismounted drill. As one platoon marched by at attention he noticed" that several men had the collars of their fatigue1jackets open. Not wishing to halt the platoon, he announced generally that the men should button their collars. Several men obeyed the order but one-man (accused) failed to do so. When the platoon passed by again the lieutenant told accused to button his collar but he "still didn't." Thereupon Lieutenant Wesley walked beside.the platoon, ordered him to fall out, and when he obeyed, asked if heTneard him. Accused replied "Yes, sir, but I cannot do two things at once." • The lieutenant told him that he could do four things at once if he told him to, ordered him to button his collar before he preferred charges, and informed him that "he would hear more of it later." Accused obeyed the order, buttoned his collar and fell back in ranks (R4-5,7).
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(277)
On the following evening (28 September) Lieutenant Wesley told the first sergeant (Sergeant Slaughter) that several men including accused were to take a hike (R5). On direct examination the lieutenant was asked
"Q. And what was the nature of .this hike?
A. It was to be a hike for about an hour or an hour and a half for several of. the men of the Battery, who I thought a little exercise would be good for them (R5).	.
The following question and answer occurred on cross-examination:.
'	"Q.	Now,	then	on the next day when this
trouble over the hike came up — as a . matter of fact isn't it true that you were having him take this hike as a disciplinary measure for his neglect of the previous day?	,	.
A. Yes, sir" (R7).
Between 5:00-6:00 p.m. accused came to the room of First Sergeant Basil R. Slaughter, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, and asked if he' had to go on a hike that evening. Upon being told that he did, he said "I am not taking it. I have a sore leg. I wouldn't take the hike if I did not have a sore leg." When told by Slaughter that he had better go on the hike, he replied "No." The sergeant then informed the battery commander (Lieutenant Wesley) and tsked him what he was going to do about , it." Slaughter thought accused "had had a drink", but had no proof of this fact (Rll-13).
* . *
About 5*30 p.m.‘ pursuant to Lieutenant Wesley'a orders, accused, appeared at the orderly room and was asked by the lieutenant whether or not he was going to go on the hike. He replied that it was not a question of his refusing to take the hike, that he. had received an injury in Iceland when struck on the hip' by a gun trail, that hi.s hip had been bothering him and that he had gone to the dispensary for this reason. As the lieutenant did not wish to give him a direct order to take the hike without knowing more of the circumstances of his physical ailment, he informed accused that he would have him checked by a doctor and that, if he was "capable of taking the hike according to medical authority, he would take the hike." ' Lieutenant Wesley testified that accused seemed normal and in full possession of his faculties1 and that he was not drunk. The idea that he had been driiiking never occurred to him (R6,8-9).
About 7*00 p.m. 28 September, accused entered the dispensary in a "slouchy, surly manner" and said: "Good evening, Mr. Martin" to Captain Richard D. Martin, battalion surgeon of the 46th Field Artillery Battalion The captain replied* "Mr. Martin?", whereupon accused said: "Captain Martin".	When asked if he had been on sick call that morning, accused
confIdentiai
CONFIDENTIAL
replied "I went to the dentist; that is the only way I can get away from . the organization.” Upon being asked if he had anything to drink he said "Yes, sir, I had a couple of drinks." Captain Martin then asked what he could do for him. He answered "Nothing". When asked if he had any pains or whether there was anything wrong with him, he replied "There is not a thing wrong with me." When asked by the captain if he was .going on the hike, accused said "No. They can't make me go on a hike. I will go to the guardhouse first." Although he had previously been requested to make a physical examination of accused. Captain Martin did not do so.
"I wasn't going to give him a general physical examination when there was nothing wrong with him." With reference to accused'3 sobriety at that time, the Captain testified: "He wasn't drunk. He had had a couple of beers or a couple of drinks, something like that. He was far from being drunk. He knew what he was doing at all times." (R9-10).
The deposition of Second Lieutenant George Dutko, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, was admitted in evidence as Pro3.Ex.A, the defense stating that it had no objection thereto, and that the deposition had been taken with defense counsel present and that cross-interrogatories had been presented (Rll; Pros.Ex.A). It is stated in the deposition thait it was taken by consent of the parties in view of the contemplated unavailability of the witness, and that it was to be offered, introduced and read in evidence before a general court-martial appointed by paragraph 1, Special Orders No. 92, Headquarters 5th Infantry Division, 18 September 1942 as amended by paragraph 1, Special Orders No. 105, same headquarters, 13 October 1943, the trial court. It Is further stated therein that the trial judge .advocate and defense counsel were present.
The defense counsel propounded cross-interrogatories.
Lieutenant Dutko deposed that about 7:30 p.m. 28 September, he was present in the orderly room of Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion. He sent the charge of quarters and two non-commissioned officers to get accused who later appeared at the orderly room, saluted, and said "Private First Class Branham reporting as ordered, sir." He told Lieutenant Dutko that he was not feeling well and was unable to take a hike, whereupon the lieutenant informed him that the medical officer. Captain Martin, had pronounced him able and fit to take the hike. Lieutenant Dutko then said "Branham, this Is a direct order. Will you take this hike." He replied "No,, sir, I won't." The order to take the hike was given in the presence of three non-commissioned officers pursuant to instructions which had previously been received by the lieutenant from his superior officer in the battery, Lieutenant Shannon. When he sent for accused and ga.ve him the order in the presence of the three witnesses, he was merely following out these instructions. Lieutenant Dutko "had some knowledge, but not a complete knowledge" of what had occurred earlier in the day. He noticed .nothing unusual about the condition of accused who had, however, "seemed to be distressed about something". He did not know if the man was drunk, nordid he know whether or not he was then physically fit to go on the hike (Pros.Ex.A).
- 4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(279)
The ordef* to take the hike was given by Lieutenant Dutko in the presence of Staff Sergeant Harry Schroedter, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, who heard accused reply that "he wasn’t goihg to take the hike". Accused had reported to the lieutenant in the proper manner, and Schroedter did not notice whether he had been drinking or whether he was under the influence of liquor (R14.-16).
Accused did not go on.the hike (R5,15).
4.	For the defense. Private First Class John J. Brewster, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, testified that from 10:30 or 11:00 a.m. until about 12:30 p.m, 28 September, he was with accused in a pub named the Ram. Accused was1 drinking whiskey and beer and was one of a group of three men who, with two other men, drank a quart of whiskey.
When-Brewster left the pub at about 12:30 p.m. accused acted as though he was "pretty high" (R17-18).
It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that if Private First Class Sampson Douglas, Jr., were present he would testify in substance that on 28 September he and accused went to the Ram about 11:30 a.m. where they drank about five or six "double shots" of whiskey "chased" by beer. When they left at about 2:30 p.m. to return to the battery area, accused was feeling "pretty high." When the postexchange opened about 5:00 p.m. the two men "resumed drinking beer."
About 6:00 p.m. the charge of quarters of accused's battery came to the post-exchange to take him to the orderly room.	In the opinion of
Douglas, when he left the building accused was very much under the influence of liquor. "*** he was, however, able to walk straight;— he was making efforts to walk straight ***." (R19).
5.	The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and of the Specification thereunder (behaving with disrespect toward his superior officer. Captain Liartin, in violation of • Article of War 63). Accused entered the dispendary•in a "surly, slouchy manner" and said "Good evening, Mr. Martin." He said that he had gone to the dentist because it was the only way he could "get away from the organization." He further stated that he was not going on the hike, that he could not-be made to go, and that he would "go to the guardhouse first." . His behavior was clearly disrespectful and was contemptuous, surly and unduly familiar as alleged.
The defense introduced evidence to the effect that accused had been drinking rather heavily during the day, and that he was drunk when he left the post-exchange "to go to the orderly room. Captain Martin testified that although accused had had a couple of beers or drinks, he was far from being drunk while at the dispensary at 7:00 p.m., and that he knew what he was doing at all times. Sergeant Slaughter thought
5	-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(280) -
that accused "had had a drink" when he‘came to the former's room between 5:00-6:00 p.m. but had no proof of this fact. According to' Lieutenant Wesley, who saw accused about 5:30 p.m., the idea that he had been drinking never occurred to him. Accused had seemed normal and in full possession of his faculties. Lieutenant Dutko noticed nothing unusual about his condition at 7:30 p.m. although he "seemed to-be distressed about something." He did not know if accused was drunk. The issue of drunkenness was one of fact for the sole determination Of the court and in view of the evidence, the Board of Review will not disturb its findings (CM ET0 1065, Stratton).
6.	With reference to the offense alleged in Specification 1 of Charge II (willful disobedience of the order of Lieutenant Dutko, his superior officer, in violation of Article of War 64), it is evident that when giving the order to accused in the presence of three witnesses, Lieutenant Dutko was merely carrying out express instructions which he had previously received from superior authority and acted, so to speak, simply as a conduit. He had been instructed by his superior officer in the battery. Lieutenant Shannon, to order accused to take the hike. However, in view of all the evidence, including the testimony of Lieutenant Wesley, accused's battery commander, it is apparent that Lieutenant Wesley himself was primarily responsible for the ultimate issuance of the order by Lieutenant Dutko and the merits of the case should be discussed accordingly.
There can be no doubt that the order given accused was clearly intended as a punishment for his conduct at drill on the previous day, and that the order to go on the hike was not given in furtherance of any ordinary routine training program as such. When Lieutenant Wesley gave accused the final order to button his collar, he told him that "he would hear more of it later". The lieutenant thought that "a little exercise would be good" for several men, including accused, who were to take the hike. He answered in the affirmative when‘asked on cross-examination if he was having accused take the hike "as a disciplinary measure for his neglect of the previous day". .
As the order was intended as a punishment the provisions of Article of War 104. become pertinent. By virtue of that article
"**** the commanding officer of any detachment, company, or higher command may, for minor offenses, impose disciplinary punishments upon persons of his command •without the intervention of a court-martial, unless the accused demands trial by court-martial ****" (AW IGA). (Underscoring supplied).
6
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(281)
"The commanding officer, after ascertaining to his satisfaction, by such ingestig-ation as he deems necessary, .that an offense cognizable by him under AW 104 has been committed by a member of his command, Trill notify such member of the nature of etch offense as clearly and concisely as mav be. and inform him that he proposes to impose punishment under AW 104 as to such offense • unless trial by court-martial for the same is demanded, ihhhh*. (mBM.. 1928. par.107■ p.104). (Underscoring supplied).
ftith reference to each offense as to which no demand for trial by court-martial is made, the commanding officer may proceed to impose punishment. The accused will be notified of the punishment imposed as soon as practicable and at the same time will be informed of his right' to appeal. *•**-***.
(MCM., 1928, par.107, p.105). (Underscoring supplied).
"A person punished under authority of this article who deems his punishment unjust or disproportionate to the offense may, through proper channels, appeal to the next superior * authority, but may in the meantime be required to'-undergo the punishment adjudged.
(AW 104). An appeal not made within a reasonable time may be rejected by the 'next superior authority'. An appeal will 1	be	in writing through proper channels ****
and will include a brief signed statement of the reasons for regarding the punishment as unjust or disproportionate. The immediate commanding officer of the accused will when necessary include with the appeal a copy of the record **** in the case. ****."
(IJCM., 1928, par.108, p.105).
During drill on the morning of 27 September, accused was marching in formation with the collar of his fatigue jacket unbuttoned. Although he admittedly heard Lieutenant Wesley'3 order to button his collar, he failed to do so. When ordered to fall out of formation by Lieutenant Wesley, he offered the insufficient excuse that he could not "do two things at once". * He finally buttoned his jacket when again ordered to do so. This offense by accused was a "minor offense" for which punishment might be imposed pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 104. "Generally speaking, the term includes derelictions not involving moral
- 7 -
MNFIDENTIAt
CONFIDENTIAL
turpitude or any greater degree of criminality or seriousness than is' involved in the average offense tried by summary court-martial" (LKM., 1928, par.105, p.103).
- The order to go on the hike was intended to be given as a punishment (Lieutenant Wesley expressly testified that wa3 his intention) (R7), but there was no evidence that accused was notified'that disciplinary action under Article of War 104 was contemplated, that he could demand trial by court-martial in lieu of accepting the punishment, or that he was informed 1 of his right to appeal to superior authority if he believed the punishment to be unjust. The requirements of AW 104 as stated in the Manual for Courts-Martial that the accused (a) be given the opportunity to demand trial by court-martial before imposition of punishment, and (b) be informed of his right to appeal to superior author ity if he believes the punishment imposed is unjust, are mandatory, and the failure of the officer imposing the punishment to notify the accused of his rights nullifies the order of punishment and renders it illegal. (Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-19AO, sec.4.62(5), p.370).
The case under consideration is readily distinguishable from the case cited in Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, sec,422(6), pp.286-287, (CM 200289 (1933))• In that case accused was convicted of refusing to obey a lawful order to scrub a floor, a punishment imposed under AW 104. The record did not show that he.was advised of his right to demand trial in lieu of accepting the punishment, but did show that he was advised of his right to appeal to higher authority, and that the Articles of War had been read to him on several occasions. It was held that in the absence of an affirmative showing"to the contrary, it must be presumed that punishment under Article of War 104 was'lawfully imposed after compliance with all the preliminary requirements. It was further held that the order was a lawful one and the conviction was sustained. However, in that case the provisions of Article of War 104 were at least partially complied with in that accused was specifically informed of his right to appeal to higher authority, and it is reasonable to presume, in the absence of a contrary showing, that the other preliminary requirements were fully observed. ’ In the present case the record of trial is completely silent with reference to compliance with any of the requirements of the article and indicates rather clearly that no compliance was attempted. Consequently, no basis whatsoever is furilished for any such presumption. The order of punishment was, therefore, illegal.
In view of the foregoing the Board of Review is of the opinion that the evidence,is legally insufficient to sustain the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II and of Charge II.
7.	A commanding officer is authorized to order a soldier to go on a practice march or hike as a form of additional training, as he i3 authorized to order other additional training for backward soldiers, provided the additional training is reasonable, as, for example, where
— 8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(283)
a soldier is not up to standard in the manual of arms, close order drill, etc. As a commander, he could no doubt order an additional practice march if the physical condition of the soldier or his state of training is such as to require it and make it a reasonable measure of training.
But this is not such a case. Lieutenant Wesley testified that this hike was ordered as a disciplinary measure for accused's neglect of the previous day, A practice march is clearly a military duty and is not in the nature of extra fatigue duty within the purview of Article of War 104-. Courts-Martial are prohibited from degrading military duties such as drill by imposing them as punishments (LKM., 1928, par.102, p.92). Obviously the same prohibition applies to disciplinary punishments; military duties may not be degraded by their use as forms of punishment under Article of War 104.
8,	The Board of Review expresses no opinion with reference to the question of the admissibility in evidence of the deposition of Lieutenant Dutko.
9.	The charge.sheet shows that accused ie 26 years of age and that he enlisted at Fort Knox, Kentucky, 13 October 1939 for a period of three years. He had no prior service.
10.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and of the Specification thereunder, legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II and of Charge II, and legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves confinement at hard labor for six months and forfeiture of two-thirds of his pay per month for a like period.
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(284)
22 JAN 1944 TO: Commanding
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
TO, Branch Office TJAG,, with ETOUSA. General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. A. Amy,
1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 50i-as amended by the Act of 20 August 1937 (50 Stat. 724; 10 U.S.C. 1522) and an further amended by Public Law 693, 77th Congress, 1 August 1942 is the record of trial in the case of Private First Class BUSTER BRANHAM (6669557), Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion.
2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of- Review and for the reasons stated therein recommend that the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II and of Charge II be vacated, that so much of the sentence be vacated as is in excess of confinement at hard labor for six months and forfeiture of two-thirds of his pay per month for a like periodJ and that all rights, privileges and property of which accused has been deprived by virtue of that portion of the findings and sentence so vacated, be restored.
» ,
3.	The accused in this case was surly, undisciplined, insubordinate. He deserves more punishment than this holding permits, but the responsibility for that result lies elsewhere, . This case is an example of the exercise of ■unrestrained authority by officers, which caused Congress after the last war to revise the procedure governing courts-martial to include the present Article of War 104, limiting and regulating the disciplinary power of a commanding officer. Punishments must be of the kind permitted by the Article and" imposed as there required; soldiers may not be punished at the arbitrary whim of an officer. There is great need for the instruction of junior officers in their duties toward the men committed to their .charge, and in the proper exercise of their command powers.
4.	Inclosed is a form of action designed to. carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is a draft GCMO for use in promulgating the proposed.action. Please return the record of trial with required copies of GCMO. '
3	Incls:
Incl.l' Record of trials Incl,2 Form of action . Incl.3 .Draft GCMO /
(Findings and sentence vacated in part in accordance with recommendation of the Assistant Judge Advocate General-. GCMO 3, ETO, 25 Jan 1944)
'E. C. McNSlL,
Brigadier General; • United States Amy, ; Assistant JiidgerC^^^Sil^Qeneral.
#(285)
