#(65)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
’ European Theater of Operations	"	•
* APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1191
UNITED STATES )
v.	)
)
ELOI V. ACOSTA, JR., (36079),	)
Aircraft Engine Mechanic,	)
Civil Service Technician De- * ) tachment, AOlst Air Depot, )
1st Base Air Depot; a civilian ) serving with the United States )
Army in the field and under ) the jurisdiction thereof. ‘ )
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
14 MAR 1944
VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Warrington, Lancashire, England, 26 November 19A3.	Sentence!
Confinement at hard labor for 18 months. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the person named above has been examined by the Board of Review.	'
2i Accused wa3 tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	93rd	Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Eloy	Acosta,	Jr.	Air.	Eng.
•	Mech.	a person serving with the Armies of the
US in the field. Civil Service Technician Detachment, 1st B.A.D., did, at AAF Station 590, on or about 29 October, 19A3, feloniously take,
•	steal	and carry away, seven one-pound notes,*
British Currency, value about $28.25 (twenty eight dollars and twenty five cents), the property of Joe Mayfield
CHARGE II: ' Violation of the 9Ath Article of War (Finding of not guilty)
Specification: (Finding of not guilty)
- 1 -
CHARGE Ills Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In that ********** did, at
AAF Station 590, APO 635, from on or about 1 August 194-3 to on or about 30 October 1943 wrongfully and unlawfully obstruct and interfere with the U.S. Amy Mail.
He pleaded not guilty, was found guilty of Charges I and III and their respective specifications and not guilty of Charge II and its Specification. No evidence of previous convictions wa3 introduced. He was sentenced to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for a period’of 18 months. The reviewing authority approved the sentence and designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement but withheld the order directing the execution of the sentence and forwarded the record of'trial pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50£.
3i Evidence for the prosecution establishing the status of accused is substantially as follows:
• Accused was, on 29 October 1943, an aircraft engine mechanic employed as a civil service technician in the United States Civil Service Detachment with the United States Army in the European Theater of Operations at AAF Station 590 (R62). He worked in the shipping department located at Hangar K at such station (R36,37). He was paid by the United States Government (R6). He had been working for the Government for about four years; first at San Antonio General Depot and then at Duncan Field where he was an aircraft engine mechanic. At the last named place he volunteered to go overseas (R62). The defense conceded the jurisdiction of the court over accused (R7).
4.	Prosecution’s evidence in support of Charge I and'Its Specification shows:	On	29	October 1943 and previous thereto, he lived in a double
room at Bruchs Hall, a barracks at AAF Station 590. He had had various room-mates at different times. One Joe Mayfield had bead his room-mate for some three months prior to the last mentioned date.	Each had his own
separate furniture in the room (R63).	On the evening 6f 28 October,
Mayfield also a civil service technician in like employment, had retired leaving his trousers on top of his dresser (R9). In one of the pockets thereof was 117, British currency. On the morning of 29 October 1943, 17 were missing (R8).	Upon discovering his loss, he asked accused if he had
any money to lend.	Accused answered "He had only five shillings and
could not spare a pound" (R9). Mayfield had received his money from the pay roll. The notes were numbered consecutively. He requested the loan as he desired to check the numbers of pound notes he still retained with the money accused might have produced (RIO), Accused however was not in the same pay line as Mayfield. Accordingly his money would bear different serial numbers (Rll). Mayfield charged accused with the theft of the 17. The accusation was investigated on 30 October 1943 by Corporal Charles L. Colgrove, 890th Military Police Company, Corporal Trevis of the Post Guard,
2
(67)
Corporal Burke of the 1108th Military Police Company and Lieutenant J. Perez Petinto, H08th Military Police Company. During the investigation the personal belongings of accused located in his room in Bruche Hall were searched. Accused and Mavfield were present at the search. A Mr. Laudrum (status undisclosed) was also present. Seven & 1 notes were found on the top shelf of his wall locker among a quantity of papers (R12, - 15). Five of the seven notes bore numbers which were consecutive with five of the nine notes which remained in Mayfield's'possession. The seven notes were admitted in evidence as Pros.Ex."A" (R1A). They were numbered Z16D58AA18. Z16D58AA30. Z30D065A20. Z30D065A21. Z3QD065Z22. Z3QD065A23. Z30D065A2A. The notes remaining in Mayfield's possession were numbered Z29D850510. Z3QDQ65A25. Z30D065A26. Z30D065A27. Z30D065A28. Z30D065A29. Z30D069A70. -Z30D069A71. Z30D069A72 (R15) (Underscoring supplied).
J
When confronted with the fact that the numbers of five of the notes found among his possessions bore numbers which were consecutive with several notes remaining in the -possession of Mayfield, accused admitted that he had taken the seven LI notes and described the manner in which he took them. He entered the room during the previous night while Mayfield was asleep. He saw Mayfield's trousers on top of the dresser and "went through the trousers and removed the seven LI notes" (R30). Accused also made a written statement, admitted in evidence as Pros.Ex.Jl, (R33) in pertinent part as follows:	•	•	■
"State^o:? Eloy Acosta.
I,	Eloy Acosta, CST #36079, stationed at Bruche Hall and quartered in room #18, in Barracks "B", having had the 2Ath AW read to me and my rights therein explained do hereby make the following voluntary statement:
On the 30th October 19A3 at about 00:A5 hours I entered my room in Barracks "B". I saw that my roommate, Joe Mayfield, was in bed and asleep and that his trousers were laying on his bureau. I went to Mayfield's side of the room and took some of the L (Pound) notes from his trousers. I put the money in my fatigue suit and after getting up this morning, I placed' the money on the top shelf in my wall locker, where it was found by the. Military Police who were .searching for the missing money.
I	have read the foregoing and find samel to be true."
- 3 -
(68)
5.	Prosecution's evidence with respect to Charge III and its Specification summarizes as follows:
During the search of accused's quarters conducted for the purpose of discovering the money, Mayfield and accused were in the room and they pointed out their respective bureaux and lockers (R23,30). In addition to the money there was found a considerable amount of mall matter among •accused's belongings (R30). It consisted of "V letter mail written by members of the Civilian Technician Detachment at Bruche Hall which had never reached the censor’s office, and numerous post-cards and letters written by people in the United States and addressed to persons at AAF Station 590. Some of the mail was in accused's wall locker, some in his bureau drawers and some in his suit case (R16). This mail was delivered to Lieutenant Petinto who took it to the Military Police office where Colgrove, Burke and a Sergeant Prince sorted and classified it and compiled a record particularly identifying each piece of mail matter (RT& In the evening of 30 October 194-3 > Colgrove accompanied by Major Nelson, commanding officer of Bruche Hall and Sergeant Thomas J. Horan, 890th Military Police Company returned to accused's room and made further examination of accused's personal property. Acosta was not present during this search. Post-cards and sealed letters were found and seized by Major Nelson, Colgrove and Horan and were also taken to military police headquarters (R22). They were sorted, classified and listed and delivered to Lieutenant Petinto (R16).
By stipulation between the Prosecution and Defense it was agreed that Colgrove was able to identify Pros.Exs. A to Z and Pros.Exs. A1 to G1 as the pieces of mail found by him in accused's room during both the first and second search (R17). The exhibits were accordingly admitted in evidence but withdrawn by consent of the court upon completion of the case (R18). Accompanying the record is a description and classification of these exhibits prepared by Colgrove which was substituted for the exhibits upon withdrawal (R18). Of the envelopes containing letters which originated in the United States, about four or five remained sealed and about four had been opened when seized. The mail exhibits as presented in court were in the same condition as when taken from accused's room (R54-). Acosta gave Colgrove no reason for his possession of the mail matter (R19).
A former room-mate of accused, civil service technician,
Seccundino Martinez, testified that Pros.Ex.U was a letter he had received from his brother, but did not recall what disposition he had made of it. While rooming with accused, witness and accused wrote many1letters and there were usually letters lying around unmailed (R4A-45). Normally their mail was delivered to them by sliding it under the door of their room (R46)• He had lived in the room with accused about eight months beginning in November 1942 and ending about July 194-3•	Mail was not censored before it was
placed in the mail box (R47-4&).
Accused's brother-in-law, Leopold Muhez (46420), civil service technician, testified that he had written Pros.Ex.Bl and Cl, being letters to his wife and to his father living in Texas. He gave them to accused
- 4- -
(69)
to mail. He believed that accused had forgotten to mail them (R50),
R. C. Kimberley, (32737), civil service technician, identified Pros.Ex.B as a letter he -wrote his wife on 7 September 194-3. He deposited it in the mail box at Bruche Hall on that date. Accused was never given permission to have possession of the letter (R4l). The mail box was a closed box with a slit in it (R42).
C.	D. Crawford (33805), civil service technician, identified Pros.
; Ex.F, a "V" mail letter,: as written by him on 7 September 1943 which he . placed in the nV” mail letter box at the branch post-office on that date.
He gave no one permission to mail this letter for him (R39). The mail box was closed but it had a slit in it.
* An additional stipulation was entered into between prosecution and defense as follows:
"It is stipulated by and between Prosecution Counsel and Defense Counsel that various other pieces of mail, both unmailed V-Mail and regular type mail, some addressed from the States to Civil Service Technicians 'at AAF Station 590 and some pieces of mail addressed by Civil Service Technicians now stationed at AAF Station 590, as evidenced by Prosecution Exhibits "A" to "Z" and "Al" to "Gl", were found in the possession of the accused, and if the persons who addressed those pieces of mail or who should have received those pieces of mail were present they would testify in substance as did the . witnesses R.C.Kimberly, 32737, Civil Service Technician, AAF 590, L.Muniz, 46420, Civil Service Technician, Civil Service Detachment,
AAF 590 and C.D.Crawford, 33805, Civil Service Technician, CiVil Service Detachment, :
AAF 590,* and S. Martinez, Civil Service Technician, Civil Service Detachment, AAF'590 in regard to the mall addressed to them or written by them. It is further stipulated that all of the mall in question was of a personal nature" (R5l).
6.	For the defense, Jesus "Gonzalez, a civil service technician, testified he ifas one of four station mail censors in addition to the Chief Censor. Gonzalez censored the mail originating at Bruche Hall. His office was located next door to the p'ost office (R56)^ There were two boxes in which the outgoing mail' was deposited* The air box had a slot through which letters were inserted. In order to' Remove me-n from it one had to walk around the counter. The "V" mail box had a .door through which the mail was placed in the box. It was not locked. Some of the
-5 -
(70)	•	*
men placed their letters on top of the boxes or the counter instead of in the boxes. Mail orderlies brought the letters from the boxes to the censor's office and returned it. Witness had: never heard complaints concerning misdelivery of mail (R57,58).
Although the defense did not raise any question as to accused's sanity4, 1st Lieutenant Gerald'C. Sylvester, QMC., 401st Air Depot, the investigating officer, admitted that he had recommended that accused be examined by a psychiatric board to determine his sanity and stated that he was hazy and vague when examined by witness.
Accused was sworn as a witness on his own behalf. He stated he had been overseas since September 1942 and had lived in Bruche Hall during all of that time (R62). He and his successive room-mates had separate closets and dressers in their room. They used each other's clothes. He did not keep money in the place where the money in question was found, did not know how the money got there,' never saw it and knew nothing about it . (R63,66). He did not know why they were searching his room but he was . present when the search was made for the money and when it was found (R63, 68). He admitted that the money was found in his room and that "the Lieutenant" was "pretty mad about it" and cursed him and struck him on the face. The officer had a club which he kept in his hand at Police Headquarters and informed accused that he better "tell him something about all this" or else he "would beat me up". Accused was afraid (R64). He was taken to another room and there an enlisted man "took down something] I do not know what it was. Then they told me to sign it. I do not know what I was signing" (R65,68). Accused stated some of the letters were given to him "by some parties" and some belonged to his room-mates. He could not explain his possession of the V-mail letters (R65).
7.	Lieutenant Joseph Perez-Petinto, recalled as a witness in rebuttal, related in detail the warning given to accused at the time he made his statement (Pros.Ex.Jl) and the circumstances surrounding its procurement.
He denied that accused was struck or cursed by anyone (R71-72).
8.	Article of War 2 reads in part as follows:
"The following persons are subject to these articles and shall be understood as included"
.in the term 'any person subject to military law,' or 'persons subject to military law,'
' whenever used in these articles: * * *.
((|) All retainers to the camp and all persons accompanying’ or serving with the armies of the United States without' the territorial jurisdiction of the United States, and in time of war all such retainers and ‘ persons accompanying or serving with the armies of the United States in the field, both within and without the territorial jurisdiction of the United States, though not otherwise subject to these articles."
- 6 -
(71)
Accused’s amenability to the United’ States military courts sitting in the United Kingdom was established beyond doubt or contradiction. He had been an employee of the United States Government at the San Antonio General Depot and as an aircraft engine mechanic at Duncan Field. He volunteered for over-sea service and arrived in the United Kingdom in September 1942 as a member of the United States Civil Service Detachment. At the time of his commission of the alleged offenses he was employed, as a member of said detachment, in the shipping department in Hangar K of the First Base,Air Depot, AAF Station 590. He received his compensation from the United States Government. Since his arrival in England he was domiciled in a barracks - Bruche Hall - provided for the personnel of the Civilian Civil Service Detachment,
The court and the Board of Review may take judicial notice of the fact that between 1 August 1943 and 30 October 1943 the United States was engaged in war against the Axis power (Act Dec 8, 1941> Public Law 328-77th Cong. 1st Sess.j Act Dec 11, 1941, Public Law 331-77th Cong. 1st Sess.j Act Dec 11, 1941, Public Law 332-77th Cong. 1st Sess.j 55 Stat. 795-797); that within the United Kingdom the United States maintained military establishmentsj that AAF Station 590 was one of their establishments; and that military personnel were on duty at said station (MCM, 1928, par.125, pp.134,135). The proof shows that also located at said station was a detachment of civilian employees of which accused was a member, which was engaged in work directly connected with the' servicing of the Arny Air Force.
It therefore is manifest that jurisdiction over the person of accused may be claimed by military courts under the clause of the 2nd Article, of War declaring that:
n all persone accompanying or serving with	;
the armies of the United States without the territorial jurisdiction of the United States"
are subject to military law regardless of the existence of a state of war or not. Accused, an immediate employee of the Government, was also within the subsequent clause of, the article which specifies that:	>
"in time of war all * * * persons accompanying or serving with the armies * * * in the field both within and without the territorial ,	jurisdiction	of	the	United	States"
shall be subject to the jurisdiction of courts-martial and the Articles of War. ‘Beyond doubt he was "serving with the armies in the field". The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial establishes the court's jurisdiction over the person Of accused and his responsibility under the-Articles of:War-(In-re Df BartolO 50 Fed. Supp.929j Ex parte Garlach,
247 Fed. 616; Ex parte Falls‘251 Fed. 415,* SPJW 1943/6250, 14’May 1943,
Bull.JAG June 1943, Vol.II, No.6, sec.359(9), pp:234,235; SPJGW 1942/5668,
7
(72)	'
Dec 1, 194VBull.JAG Dec 1942; Vol.I; No.7, sec;359(l2), p.357j SPJGST . 1942/4635, Oct-7, 1942, Bull.JAG Oct 1942, Vol.I, No.5, Const. Art.II, sec.2, cl.2(la), pp.255,256j JAG 250.401, JaA 21, 1942, Bull.JAG Jan-June 1942,,Vol.I, No.l, 8ec.359(l2), p.12).
• 9.	"Larceny	is the the taking and carrying
away, by trespass, of personal property which the trespasser knows to belong either generally or specially to another, with intent to deprive such owner permanently of his property therein" (MCM, 1928, par.14.9g, p.171).
Despite accused's denial that he took the money from Mayfield's trousers and secreted it among papers on the top shelf of his wall locker, it was there discovered by the military police. The numbers of five of the seven notes found in accused's possession bore numbers consecutive with five of the nine notes which remained in Mayfield's possession. There is therefore substantial and convincing evidence that the notes thus recovered were Mayfield's property. They were obtained without Mayfield's consent. Accused was the only person having reasonable access to Mayfield’s property. Opportunity to commit the theft therefore was proved. Independent of accused's written signed confession there is substantial evidence to support the court's findings of his guilt (CM ETO 885, Van Horn: CM ETO 952, Mosser).
10.	In the locker1, bureau drawers and among effects and personal belongings of accused were found a considerable number of both ordinary and V-mail letters and also post-cards. These were written by persons other than the accused, most of whom were residents of Bruche Hall, and were addressed to persons other than accused, residing principally in the "United States. There was also found a considerable number of letters, originating in the United States and directed to members of the Civil Service Technical Detachment, other than accused. Many letters bad not been opened.
Some of those addressed to persons in the United States bore no evidence of having been deposited in the mail. A "post office" was located in Bruche Hall, and in proximity to accused's room.
The evidence discloses the fact that letters "posted" or deposited by the writers thereof in the Bruche Hall "post-office" were not protected against extraction from the posting boxes pending the collection by postal clerks. Both the "V* mail box and the air mail box could be entered by trespassers or other unauthorized persons and the letters removed therefrom. This evidence supports the inference that an opportunity was thus afforded accused to 'secure possession of "outgoing" letters written and addressed by residents of Bruche Hall. The record is entirely silent as to any opportunity for accused to secure possession of "incoming" letters addressed to residents of the Hall other than himself. Accused' a explanation of the Curious situation is vague, indistinct and unsatisfactory. He declared some of the letters were given to Him by other parties and some belonged to his room-mates,-past and present. He did not explain his possession of the "V" mail letters.
- 8 -
(73)
Accused is not charged with either the theft of these letters nor the wrongful or unlawful possession of same, but that he did "wrongfully and unlawfully obstruct and interfere with the U.S. Army Mail". . Such offense is laid under the 96th Article of War. . Therefore, the question presented as to sufficiency of proof of larceny in CM 226734- (1942), Bull. JAG., Dec 1942, Vol.I, No.7, sec.451(37), p.364. does not arise in the instant case.
There is no information in the record of trial as to the nature .of the so-called "post-office" at.Bruche Hall. It is not shown that it was an official army post office nor is there any evidence of its relationship to the New York City post-office. No authority is .shown for its establishment and operation. For the purpose of this holding it will therefore be assumed that the so-called "post-office" was simply a place of deposit of "outgoing" mail and receipt of "incoming" mail arranged by the commander of AAF Station No. 590 for the convenience of the military and civilian personnel on duty at that station and that it was not in its operation^ subject to the rules of the Army Postal Service or to the Postal Rule3 and Regulations or to any acts of Congress pertaining to the Postal Service (Federal Criminal Code, sec.194, 18 USCA 317} Federal Criminal Code, sec. 201, 18 USCA 324-) •
Accused was found in possession of letters written by and addressed to personnel of his station. Authority or permission of the writers and addressees thereof for such possession is negatived by substantial evidence. Accused’s explanation of his possession of the letters is unconvincing. Nevertheless, allowing it to stand,, its greatest effect was to traverse the prosecution's evidence and thereby create an issue of fact for the exclusive determination by the court. The findings of the court are adverse to accused thereby indicating that it did not accept accused's explanation but believed he came into possession of the letters without authority and as a. result of his own deliberate acts of trespass. Such findings must be.accepted by the Board of Review as conclusive inasmuch as they are supported by substantial competent evidence (CM ETO 132, Kelly and Hvde: CM ETO 397, Shaffer).	.
There is thus presented the question as to whether accused's possession of the mail matter under the circumstances clearly proved by the evidence constitutes an offense under the 96th Article of War, and if so whether the Specification of Charge III alleges such offense. They will be considered in inverse order.
The charge is that accused did "wcnn^Eilly and unlawfully obstruct and interfere with the U.S. Army mail". The word, "obstruct" has-been defined as ."to hinder or prevent from progress, check, Btop, also to retard the progress of, make accomplishment difficult" (Conley v. United . States 59 Fed. (2d) 929,936} 29 W. and P. Perm.80). The word "interfere" has been defined "to enter into, or to take^part in,the' concerns of others} to intermeddle} interpose} intervene (Webster's New International Dictionary, 2nd Ed} 22 W. and P. Perm.14-7). There can be no serious contention
- 9 -
(74)
offered against the assertion that a most reprehensible offense iB committed when a person "obstructs" or "interferes" with United States Army mail, and that such offense is clearly one chargeable under the 96th Article of War as disorder to the prejudice of good order and military discipline (MCM,
1928, par.152, p.187; Winthrop13 Military Law & Precedents - Reprint - p.722). Regardless of orders, commands, directives or even specific Congressional denunciation it is difficult to imagine an act more prejudicial to "good order and military discipline". The Board of Review therefore concludes that the Specification alleged facts constituting an offense under the 96th Article of War.
There remains the question as to whether the evidence is sufficient to prove the allegation that accused did "obstruct" and "interfere with" the "U.S.Armv mail". Accused's unauthorized possession of the letters under the circumstances revealed by the evidence was certainly an obstruction and interference with the orderly processing of mail matter. Delay was thereby caused in the delivery of both "outgoing" and "incoming" letters to their respective addresses. The dates of the letters as compared with the date they were accidentally found in accused's possession is self-speaking evidence of this fact. There is no difficulty in concluding that accused wrongfully and without authority obstructed and interfered with certain mail matter.	•	.
The crucial problem is whether it was "U.S.Armv mail"' as alleged in the Specification. Certainly it was not official mail. Obviously it did not relate to the operation, management or control of the military forces.
The mail•consisted of private letters written by O' outgoing") or addressed to ("incoming") individuals who were either civilian employees of the United States engaged in servicing and supplying the military forces, or military personnel, and concerned private matters only.
The phrase "U.S.Army" means, of course, "United States Army". The word "mail" in modern usage is equivalent to "mail matter".and includes all matters which may be transmitted in the mails (United States v. Huggett,
40 Fed. 636,641.; 26 W. and P. Perm.44). Did the phrase "U.S.Army mail" mean only official mail or did it include all mail, official and private, forwarded by or intended to be delivered to persons, who were members of or serving with the Army? The word "Army" is one of very general signifies- * tion, analogous and equivalent to, "military service". In its etymology the word "army" denotes men in arms. The term in law is noman general-lssimum and has been held even to include tjie navy (in re Stewart, 30 NI Super. Rob.) 635,636; Webster's New International Dictionary - 2nd Ed). Considering all aspects of the matter it is believed that the phrase "U.S. Army mail" describes mail matter which is despatched by or intended for delivery to persons in the service of the arjny, whether It be private or official communications or information. The interpretation appears to be. consistent with popular usage and understanding. "Army mail" is not generally understood as referring to official communications only. It is an over-all generic term carrying the sense and meaning herein indicated,.
- 10
(75)
The proof in the instant case therefore clearly sustains the allegations of the Specification that the. accused obstructed and interfered with mail matter despatched by or intended for persons serving in or with the United States Army at AAF Station No. 590. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the findings of accused's guilt of Charge III and its Specification is supported by the evidence*.
11.	Accused was present when the seven one pound English bank notes were discovered on the morning of 30 October .194-3 on the top shelf of his locker and were seized by the military police (R29,34) • He pointed out a box, some papers and other miscellaneous articles between the two wall lockers used by him and Mayfield and “suggested that Lieutenant Perez Petinto, Colgrove and searching party also make search of them (R20). He had previous to the search identified his locker, bureau and his "property" located in the room (R21,23,30). On this occasion the military police discovered numerous letters "that had been written by and to other individuals" (R15,32; Pros.Exs. A to Z and A1 to 61). The letters were ‘taken to the military police station where they were’ sorted and classified and a tabulation made of them (R17). Later in the day Major Nelson, Commanding Officer of Bruche Hall, Colgrove and Horan returned to accused's room (R21) and at' that time discovered some sealed letters and post-cards (R16). Accused was not present on the occasion of the later search (R20,22,23)•
The evidence therefore is conclusive that when the seven one pound English bank notes (Pros.Ex.A) and the greater part of the letters (Pros.Exs. A to Z and A1 to Gl) were discovered among accused's belongings and seized, that accused was present and gave his consent to the search (Pros.Exs. A to Z and A1 to Gl). The vexed question as to whether accused's constitutional rights under the Fourth Amendment to the Federal Constitution and the Act of November 23, 1921 (42 Stat. 223, 18 USCA 53) were violated (CM 196526 (1931), Dig.0p.JAG 1912-1940, se'c.395(27), p.220) is therefore eliminated from consideration with respect to the pound notes. When.evidence is secured by law enforcement officers without warrant or authority but the search is conducted in the’ presence of the accused and with his full knowledge and consent he waives his Constitutional rights and incriminating evidence thus secured is admissible a gainst him. The search and seizure under such circumstances is not "unreasonable" within the purview of the’ Fourth Amendment (Dillon v. United States, 279 Fed. 639; Windsor v. United States, 286 Fed. 51; United States v. Williams 295 Fed. 219; Waxman v. United States, 12 Fed.(2nd) 775; Giacolone v. United States, 13 Fed.(2nd) 110; Schutte v. United States, 21 Fed.(2nd) 830; United States v. Bianco, 96 Fed.(2nd) 97; United States v. Thompson, 113 Fed.(2nd) 643;
56 C.J., secs.65,66, pp.1180,1181),	>	...
Although the motive for the search was the discovery of Mayfield's bank notes there is no suggestion that accused attempted to limit the search to such purpose. Rather there is a definite inference that he gave a general consent to the examination of his belongings. In any event, the discovery of a major part of the letters and their seizure was the result of -a legal search - a search to which accused gave his consent -of accused's belongings. These letters were found within the territorial limits of the consent and hence were not under the inhibition which arises
' 11
i
(76)	.
I
when incriminating articles are discovered exterior to the authorized place of search (United States v. McCunn, 4-0 Fed. (2nd) 295)* The, important thing is that the search which discovered these letters was a search not in violation of accused's ‘constitutional rights. The fact that in the course of such search articles were discovered which incriminated accused in another offense did not render them inadmissible when used in evidence in -proof of such other offense (Gouled v. United States, 255 U.S. 298y"o5 L.Ed, 647,653} United States v. Jankowski, 28 Fed.(2nd) 800; Matthews v. Correa, 135 Fed.(2nd) 534,537).
There is no serious question involved in sustaining the admissibility in evidence of the letters which were actually discovered and seized in accused's presence. The difficulty arises out of the fact that the record of trial does not distinguish between the letters seized on the first visit to accused's room (which were thus obtained as a result of accused's consent) and those letters found in accused's room by Major Nelson, Colgrove and Horan upon their return later in the day. This second search was made without Acosta's knowledge or consent and in his absence. The exact number of letters found and seized in the course of this search is not indicated by the evidence. The implication is that "they were' but few. Colgrove in his testimony is positive that Major Nelson, the commanding officer of Bruche Hall was present on the occasion of this second search and seizure (R22).
The fair inference is that it was ordered and directed by Major Nelson. The seizure of these letters, being made by order of the commanding officer of the public quarters occupied by accused situate at military station, was therefore not obnoxious to the Fourth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The letters were admissible in evidence (JAG 250.413, July 23, 1930, Dig.Op. JAG 1912-1940, sec.395(27), p.220).
12.	The charge sheet shows accused to be 27 years and three months of age at time of commission of the offenses charged. He was temporarily appointed to the Civil Service’ at Duncan Field, Texas, on 2 February 1942.
He had service of one year and eight months.
13.	The conviction of accused of the crime of petty larceny (Charge I and Specification) authorized confinement at hard labor for one year (MCM, 1928, par. 104c, p.99). Penitentiary confinement for this offense is not authorized either by the Federal Criminal Code (sec.287, 18 USGA, 466) or the District of Columbia Code (sec.22-2202 (6:6l)).
Obstructing and interfering with the mail belonging to other persons (Charge III and its Specification) of which accused was found guilty is an offense under the 96th Article of War and is not the crimes denounced by the Federal Criminal Code (See par,10, supra). Consequently penitentiary confinement is not authorized for this offense.' Although accused is a civilian he is amenable to the Articles of War and was subject to the jurisdiction of the military court which tried him. Confinement in Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York is authorised. The place of confinement should be changed accordingly.
- 12
(77)
14.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of-accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate (SISK IN HOSPITAL)_____________Judge	Advocate
- 13 -
1st Ind.
(78)
1	4 MAR 1Q44 •
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 1	TO* Commanding
General, VIII Air Force Service Command, APO 633, D.S. Amy.
1.	In the case of ELOI V. ACOSTA, JR., (36079), Aircraft Engine Mechanic, Civil Service Technician Detachment, 401st Air Depot, 1st Base Air Depot, a civilian serving with the United States Army in the field and under the jurisdiction thereof, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support- the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding
is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^-, you now .have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	The conviction of accused of the crime of petty larceny (Charge I and Specification) authorized confinement at hard labor for one year (MCM, 1928, par,104£, p.99). Penitentiary confinement for this offense is not authorized either by the Federal Criminal Code (sec.287,- 18 USCA 466) or the District of Columbia Code (sec.22-2202 (6:6l)).
Obstructing and interfering with the mail belonging to other persons (Charge III and its Specification) of which accused was found guilty is an offense under the 96th Article of War and is not the crimes denounced by the Federal Criminal Code, Consequently, penitentiary confinement is not authorized for this offense. Although accused i3 a civilian he is amenable to the Articles- of War and was subject to the jurisdiction of the military court which tried him. Confinement in Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York, is authorized. The place of confinement should be changed accordingly, by supplemental action which should be returned to this office for attachment to:the record. ,
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office,
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. Ihe file number of the record in this office is ETO 1191. For convenience of reference pieas emplace that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 1191)	•
1 > .
/V / E. C. McNEIL, '
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
- 1 -
#(79)
