#(161)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1266
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
Captain JACK D. SHIPMAN	)
(0-372674) 14th Armored	)
Field Artillery Batta-	)
lion. w	)
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and specifications:
10 FEB 1944
2ND ARMORED DIVISION
Trial by G.C.M. convened at APO 252, on 5 January 1944* Sentence: To be dismissed the service.
CHARGE: Violation of the 95th Article,of War. Specification 1:	In that Captain JACK D. SHIPMAN,
14th Armored Field Artillery Battalion, did, at or near Bournemouth, England, on or about
15	December 1943, conduct himself in a manner unbecoming an officer and a gentleman, by making indecent advances toward one Leslie Alfred Ernest Williams, a youth of the age of about fifteen years, and by fondling the penis of
the said Leslie Alfred Ernest Williams.
Specification 2:	In that Captain JACK D. SHIPMAN,
14th Armored Field Artillery Battalion, did, at or near Bournemouth, England, on or about
16	December 1943, conduct himself in a manner unbecoming an officer and a gentleman, by inducing one Leslie Alfred Ernest Williams,
a youth of the age of about fifteen years, to perform upon him an act of masturbation, and
- 1 -
(162)
by performing upon the said Leslie Alfred
Ernest Williams a similar act of masturbation.
He pleaded guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and both specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 2nd Armored Division, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50%.
The record has been treated as though forwarded under Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, disapproved so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 1 of the Charge as involved a finding of guilty of fondling the penis of Leslie Alfred Ernest Williams as not supported by the evidence, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order'directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50^.
3.	The effects of the plea of guilty were explained to accused by the court and accused announced his desire to let his plea of guilty to all specifications and the Charge stand. The trial .judge advocate then announced that though on a plea of guilty, no evidence is required to prove the case, the prosecution would "show sufficient evidence to give the court a picture of the case for use in its deliberations" (R3-4).
Two witnesses only were introduced by the prosecution:
(1)	Leslie Alfred Ernest Williams, a sheet metal worker of Bournemouth, England, identified accused as the man he met about 15 December 1943 on Old Christchurch Road in Bournemouth and later saw sitting in front of him and his "pal" in the News Theater.
Accused talked to them, offered them cigarettes, went to a restaurant with them and then all three went to another picture house. Halfway through the picture, accused asked him to come into the lavatory with him and there asked him to handle his penis for him and "we done it later" (R5-6). The next day the same thing happened "about dinner
time". "He played with me and I played with him"------with "our
penises"(R6). *
(2)	First Lieutenant William L. Bradford, Corps of military Police, Headquarters Southern Base Section, APO 519, investigated a report made by Leslie Alfred Ernest Williams of Bournemouth, England, of acts of misconduct allegedly committed by Captain Shipman, an officer of the United States Army, being an act of mutual masturbation between accused and Leslie Williams. Witness identified a paper marked exhibit "A" for identification purposes only, as the statement made by Leslie Williams to the civilian police. On questioning accused at his (Lieutenant Bradford) office and after due explanation of his rights first given, accused "did admit that the acts alleged
in Williams' statement did occur" (R7). Accused had first read the
statement in the reports received by Lieutenant Bradford including that marked Exhibit "A".which was admitted in evidence with consent of defense counsel (R8). Exhibit "A" is a signed detailed account by Leslie Alfred Ernest Williams of his relations with accused on the 15 and 16 December 1943.
4*	"There	is no requirement of law that evi-
dence must be taken upon a plea of guilty; rather such evidence is intended to assist the court in fixing the punishment, and the reviewing authority in his consideration of the case. The finding of guilty may be supported solely on the plea of guilty". (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents. Reprint, pp.278-279; CM 212,
197, Rocker:C M ETO 612, Suckow; 24 CJS, sec. 1563, p. 23; Weir v. United States,
92 Fed (2nd) 634, 114 ALR 4-81, 484).
The effect in law of the plea of guilty is that of a confession of the offense charged. The record shows that accused was represented by counsel, that the effect of his plea of guilty was fully explained to him by the court and that accused understood the effect of his plea of guilty (22 CJS sec 424,p.655; Rice v. United States, 30 Fed. Rep. (2nd) 681; Kachnic v. United States, 53 Fed. Rep.(2nd) 312).
"The more recent practice of both our civil and military courts clearly inclines '	•	towards	requiring some evidence to be pro-
duced in explanation of the circumstances of the commission of the offense that the court, the reviewing and the clemency <authorities .may each intelligently function"
(CM ETO 839, Kelson).
The evidence submitted herein in no way denied or contradicted the plea of guilty. The Board of Review therefore holds that under ‘the circumstances shown herein, the findings of guilty of the Charge and of both specifications are fully supported.
5* The charge sheet shows that accused is 29 years of age. He was appointed a Second Lieutenant, Field Artillery Reserve, 15 November 1938; active duty 25 July to 5 August 1939 and 14- February to 22 July 1940. Entered on active duty 1 November 1940* First Lieutenant, Field Artillery Reserve, 1 November 1941} Captain, 1 June 1942.
6. The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of
(16a)
Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. A sentence of dismissal is mandatory upon the conviction of an officer of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman in violation of Article of War
-A-
1st Ind.
(165)
WD, Branch Office TJAG, with ETOBSA. 10 FEB 1944 _ Toj Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U S kray.
1.	In the case of Captain JACK D. SHIPMAN (0-372674) 14th Armored Field Artillery Battalion, 2nd Armored Division, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50£» you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this
office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record of trial in this office is ETO 1266. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at f '	‘	'	'	““">).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMD 9, ETO, 15 Feb 1944)

#(167)
