#(87)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
ETO 90.
UNITED STATES
v.
WESLEY EDMONDS (37076497), Private, Co. "C", 397th Port Battalion, Transportation Corps.
2 7 NOV 1942
TRANSPORTATION CORPS
TRIAL by G. C. M., convened at Maghull, Lancashire County,
England, 19-20 October 1942. Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances and confinement for life. Penitentiary,
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
I The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review,
Tfef accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification.
1	CHARGE:	Violation	of the 92nd Article of YJar.
Specification:	In	that Private WESLEY EDMONDS,
Company MCW, 397th Port Battalion, Transportation Corps, Maghull, Lancashire, England, did, at or near Maghull, Lancashire, England, on or about October 8,1942, forcibly and feloniously against her will have carnal knowledge of Ellen Rigby.
He pleaded not guilty and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence of one previous conviction, for breach of restriction, was introduced. He Was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor for the rest of his natural life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 5C>2*
3.	The evidence shows that Ellen Rigby, a single woman, about 34 years of age, lived with her mother. On the evening of 8 October 1942, at about 7:30 p.m., she proceeded from home to a store in the neighborhood to get some bread. The accused was in the store at the time and he followed her home attempting to engage her in conversation. Shortly thereafter she left home on her bicycle to go to her cousins some little distance in another direction where she got some onions. She passed accused as she left home and he again
(88)
attempted to engage her attention but failed. As she was coming along the road on her return towards home nearly an hour later, accused suddenly appeared, she put on her brakes and he got hold of the bicycle saddle and she had to gQt. off. Accused started talking love to her and wanted her to go around to a naystack which she refused to do but he forced her and the bicycle inside tne field and wired up the gate. Against her protests, accused started putting his hand up ner	clothes	and said	he	was	going to
love her and she was coing to love him.	He put	his coat	on	the	ground and
forced her on it and he sat on her stomach. She told him she was menstruating and struggled with him for nearly tv.ro hours once almost getting away before he caught and threatened to	stab her	in	the	back if she
cried out or made any noise (R.50). He	hit her	on the face	and	bit her
face and breast (R.ll-12, 14-15). He also offered her money which she refused, after accomplishing his purpose, accused arose, laughed and said "Nov; you may go". She was afraid to cry out (R.22-23). She returned home in a disheveled condition, with clothes dirty, stained and torn. She told her mother what had happened and they immediately called the police. The accused was picked up within a few hours, wearing blood-stained underclothing and with a fork in his pocket (R.31T. 44). He was identified by Kiss Rigby as the man who assaulted her and accused admitted she was the woman he had been out with (R.45, 50), and that the fork was his. he admitted having intercourse with Mi^ss Rigby but claimed it was with her entire consent (R.55-56). Within two or three hours after Iv'iss Rigby arrived home, she was examined by two doctors, one a police physician and the other an army officer (R.39-43). They found her in a distressed condition, numbed and shocked. She had an increased pulse, re-acted very poorly to questions.
Her speech was rather slow and halting. Her face and jaws had reddened areas which suggested bruises, as did also her neck and ankles. She had an abrasion on her chest and scratches on the posterior surface of both legs and body. Examination of the genitals showed the hymen ring torn in three places. In the opinion of the doctors she had been a virgin, the lacerations were caused by a brutal entry and the intercourse was not normal nor with the woman's co-operation. They were made when the effort of penetration occurred and would not have been multiple nor so deep if the act had been jointly accomplished.
4.	Rape is the unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman by force and without her consent (M.C.K., 1928, pg. 165). The act of intercourse■is admitted by accused. That the act was accomplished by force is conclusively shown by the undisputed testimony of the physical conditions found by both examining physicians. The appearance of the girl when she arrived home, her immediate story to her mother and the calling of the police all tends
to corroborate her story.
The facts amply support tne conclusion of the court that accused . committed the offense charged. The sentence is mandatory.
5.	Kiss Rigby of her own volition at the conclusion of her testimony, asked the court to deal lenientlv with the accused. Eiptit of the thirteen members of the court recommended clemency in G signed statement attached
to the record.
90
(89)
6,	The court was legally constitilted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense involved. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
7/ Accused is 32 years of age. Pursuant to paragraph 5 (d). General Order 37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942, the execution of a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when the accused is sentenced to confinement of three years or more for an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Rape is such an offense. A general prisoner may be returned to the United States for serving sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of rape. The designation of the Federal ' Penitentiary at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, is correct.
1st Ind.
3 0 N-CV 1942
WAR DEPARTMENT, Office of The Judge Advocate General,
European Theater of Operations, APO 871, U.S. Army.
TO; Commanding General, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations, U.S. Army.
1. I concur in the foregoing holding of the Board of Review. You now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2. When copies of the published order in this case are forwarded to this office, together with the record of trial which is herewith returned, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement.
The file number of the record of this case in this office is ETO 90. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the published order as follows:	(ETO	90)

#(91)
