#(51)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with.the •
European Theater of Operations
APO 871
BOARD CF REVIEW ETO 885
U N I T'E D STATES ) v.
Private RAYMOND (111,2) VAN HORN	)
(33043&98), Conpany A,	First	;
Provisional Battalion,	10th	)
Replacement Depot.	)
29 OCT 1943
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES -OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at ' Whittington BarrackB, Lichfield,• England, 23 September 1943* Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five- years. Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHCTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	.The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.-
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications t
CHARGE I:	Violation of the 61st Article of War.
Specification! In' that Private Raymond (NM) Van Horn, Company A., First Provisional Battalion,
10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,
Lichfield, Staffordshire,' England, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his Organization at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield,
Staffordshire, England, from on or about 1250 hours, 12 July 1943, until he was apprehended in Birmingham, Warwickshire, England 'on or about 10 August 1943 at 2230 hours.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(52)	CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE II* Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification 1» In that Private Raymond (NMI) Van Horn, Company A., First Provisional Battalion,
10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,
Lichfield,' Staffordshire, England, did, at Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about A August 19A3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away, six knives and six forks, of the value cf less than twenty ($20.00) dollars, the property of Victor Baker, 2/A Brass Street,
Birmingham, Warwickshire, England,
Specification 21 ' In that Private Raymond (NMl) Van Horn, Company A., First Provisional Battalion,
10th Replacement Depot, Whittington. Barracks, *
Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about 3 August 19A3, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his 'own use, a ring, of the value of less than twenty ($20.00) dollars, the property of Mr. Manuel Morris, l/A Brass Street,
Birmingham, Warwickshire* England, entrusted to him by Mrs. Ruby Morris, l/A Brass Street,
Birmingham, Warwickshire, England.
He pleaded guilty to Charge I and to its Specification, not guilty to Charge II and to both specifications thereunder, and was found guilty of all charges and specifications. Evidence of thre'e previous convictions for absences without leave for 53, 21 and 2 days respectively in violation of Article of War 61, and of one previous conviction for attempting to strike a soldier with a knife in violation of Article of War 96, was * introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined" at hard labor at such place as the reviewing.authority may direct fdr five years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the * Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks,' Bee'kman, New York, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 5(%.
3* Because of the pleas of guilty to Charge I and to its Specification (absence without leave in violation of Article of War 6l) the prosecution introduced no evidence with respect to this offense (R5)»
With reference to the offense alleged in Specification 1, Charge II (larceny of six forks and six knives in violation of Article of War 93), . the undisputed evidence for the prosecution shows that Mrs. Janet Baker, 2/A Brass Street,. Summer Lane, Birmingham, England first met accused in a pub where she was employed. ' It was on a Tuesday or Wednesday morning during the latter part of July (19A3). He appeared to be lonely and she gave him a drink. He told her he was in trouble, that he had been robbed
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(53)
of 25 pounds* She invited him to her home for dinner and looked after him until the following Monday when he left, saying that he had to go. He returned during the week on two or three occasions and then was not seen again until Wednesday of the following week (A August). On that day Mrs. Baker was out from about noon until 3*00 p.m. As had been her custom for 24. years, she did not lock the door when leaving the house but merely latched it. When she returned the latch was undone. She missed a cutlery set belonging to her son. Victor which set was in the bottom drawer in Victor’s room where accused had slept. ‘ The set was in a black case lined with white satin and consisted of six fish-knives and six fish-forks.
Mrs. Baker did not know the value of the set which her son had won five years before at "Lucas's Sports" (R6-8).
About 6:00 p.m. Wednesday (4. August) Mr, Terence Maguire, 15 Linton Road, Pheasey Estates, Great Barf, Birmingham saw accused at the bus depot, Birchfield Road, Perry Barr, where he worked. Maguire had seen him the week before when he had been in and obtained a loan on a ring from a man named Blizard. He opened a black box lined with pale silk containing six highly polished fish-knives and six fish-forks with bone or celluloid handles. He said that he had won the set and 10 pounds at a rollerskating competition in London. He wanted to'see Blizard who had the ring, and wanted to get the ring back and one pound in addition for the cutlery. Maguire decided to buy the set himself, borrowed 30 shillings and paid the same to accused for the cutlery. As the catch on the box was broken he mended it with two ordinary steel pins. As the result of receiving certain information he informed the police several days later that he had purchased the set. He 'identified the box and contents at the trial as the articles in question, and they were admitted in evidence with cqnsent of defense (R9-11; Pros.Ex.A). '
With reference to the offense alleged in Specification 2, Charge II (embezzlement of a ring in violation of Article of War 93), the evidence for the prosecution, which was undisputed, shows that Mrs. Ruby Morris, '' 1/4. Brass Street, Summer Lane, Birmingham, England first met accused "the week before August - July- when mother brought him home" (R12). He stayed one week at her mother's, after which she saw him for a fortnight at various intervals (R13). During this time she kept company with accused and went to the motion pictures with him and the children. He admired her husband's ring which was on her finger and said that he would like to wear it. She loaned it to him "because of friendship", telling him that it was a loan. She did not give it to him to sell. The ring was gold and had "a square on it" with her husband's initials "M.M" which stood for Manuel Morris. Later he returned the ring to her "and then he had it back again". She did. not see the ring again until the police brought it. Accused told her that a young girl at Perry Barr had "pinched" it from him, Mrs. Morris identified by the initials and shape, a ring shown to her at the trial as the ring in question. She had purchased it for three pounds, five shillings and had paid one shilling, nine pence to have the initials put on (R12-13).
- 3~
r^MFinFNTlAL
(54)
CONFIDENTIAL'
Mr. Frederick G.-Blizard, 109 Curbar Road, Beeches Estate, Birmingham Was a mechanic at the Birmingham Corporation Transport Depot, Birchfield garage. • One morning accused entered’the mess room at about 700 a.m. and after eating asked Blizard if he would like to buy a ring which he was wearing. Blizard refused Whereupon accused asked if he would lend him something on it so that he could return to Lichfield Barracks. Blizard then offered ten shillings on the ring and told him that if he wanted it to be "in pawn” he could get il back at any time.
He also" gave him his name and address and told him that if he was "stuck" for a place1 he could come to his house for dinner. Accused said that he would come for the ring_ the following evening. The ring"was of the gold signet type with "M.M" stamped on the top. Blizard identified a ring shown him at the trial as the-ring in question and it was admitted in evidence (R14j Pros^Ex.B).
It was stipulated by the prosecution and the defense that accused was a member of the military service of the United States (Rl6).
4.	For the defense. Private John A. Jones, Company A, First Provisional Military Police Battalion, testified that about JulyJLOth he had gone on pass to Walsall with accused who had been "shooting craps" and
who had about 70 pounds. He last saw him about 17 July at camp (Lichfield Barracks) when he came to Jones' barracks to have his clothes pressed (R17).
' Accused at his own request made a sworn statement to the effect that about 10 July he went absent without leave. He and Jones went to Walsall, remained over night and returned to camp. Accused was then drunk and returned to Walsall for two or three days. About 7 August he had a fight during which a civilian hit him over the eye, and upon regaining his senses he found thafhe was in a hospital in Birmingham, Upon leaving the hospital to turn himself in as absent without leave he met some "bobbies" who asked if he had been in a fight "down here last night". When he replied in the affirmative,'they suggested he go to the police station to see about some money he had lost." He did bo, and at the station asked that the military police be called so that he could surrender. While he was waiting for their arrival he was questioned by a civilian. He informed the military policeithat he had been'absent 28 days. As^he was out qf_. his'head he did not know whether or not he got the forks and knives. He did not remember, anything of the period between 10 July and the time‘of the fight because he was drunk (R18-19).
5.	Accused pleaded guilty to the alleged offense of absence without leave (Charge I and Specification).
Although proof of the dates alleged in Specifications 1 and 2 of" Charge II was not definitely established, considering all the testimony it is apparent that the offenses were committed during the latter part of July or the first‘week in August. No question as to the date of commission of the offenses was raised by the defense. There was no doubt as to the
- 4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(55)
identity of the articles involved as the descriptions given by Mrs. Baker and Mrs. Morris sufficiently coincided with those of Mr. Maguire and Mr. Blizard. Although the value of the articles was not fully established, they were before the court as exhibits and its findings that they were of some value less than $20 were clearly justified (MCM., 1928, par,149g, P.173).
Accused’s possession of the recently stolen cutlery was not satisfactorily explained and may raise a presumption that he stole the property (HEM., 1928, par ,112a, p.110). Also,
"Proof of a subsequent sale of stolen property goes to show intent to steal, and, therefore, evidence of such sale may be introduced to support charges of larceny." (M3M., 1928, par.
H9& P.173).
It was clearly established by the evidence that Mrs. Morris loaned the ring to accused and that he pawned it shortly thereafter.
"*** where an article is borrowed **, the person borrowing ** it does not commit a larceny if he subsequently, while holding the property as a borrower, *** decides to and does convert the article to his own use. In such a case there is no trespass and the offense is, . in consequence, not larceny but embezzlement"
(HEM., 1928, par.U9g, p.172).
"The loan of a topcoat by one friend to another, through an informal transaction, involves an element of trust in the borrower by the lender.
Pawning it or selling it is a breach of that trust, and constitutes the offense of embezzlement under A.W, 93, Ah defined in paragraph 149&, Manual for Courts-Martial" (Dig,Ops.JAG.,
1912-194-0, sec.45l(l8), p.317) (Underscoring supplied).
The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge II and of the specifications thereunder.
6.	The review of the assistant staff judge advocate and the addendum . thereto of the staff judge advocate, Western Base Section, SOS, ET00SA contains comments on certain irregularities contained in the record of trial. Further comment thereon is unnecessary.
7,	The charge sheet shows that accused is 23 years of age and that he was inducted 9 May 1941, his service being governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941. He had no prior service.
\
- 5 —
CONFIDENTIAL
(56)
CONFIDENTIAL
*
8,	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during thp trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. • .
Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA,' 4 December 1942 a sentence of, dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner; may be returned, to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or; more. The designation of the Pastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York as the placp of. confinement is correct (War Department circular No. 210, 14 September 1943, par.2&, sec.VlX
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate Advocate
CONFIDENTIAL-
CONFIDENTIAL
(?7)
1st
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 2 9 OCT 1943 TQ| commanding Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515,- U.S. Army.
1, In the case of Private RAYMOND (NIH) VAN HCRN (330A3698),
Company A, First Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot attention is invited'to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record , of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50% you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.	>
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding anc^this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 885. For convenience of referenc (ETO 885).
at^>place that number in brackets at the end of the order:
/ /e. C, McNEIL, gadier General, United States Assistant Judge Advocate General,

#(59)
