#(31)
CONFIDENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the	•'
European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 875
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES CF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER CP OPERATIONS. •
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, 27 September 1943. Sentence* Dishonorable* discharge,^ total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. The Federal Reformatory, ^Chillicothe, Ohio. >
HOLDING by the BOARD CF REVIEW RITER, VAN BEKSCBOTEN _and SARGENT, Judge Advocates '
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges add specifications*
CHARGE I* Violation of the 58th Article of War.
Specification* In that Private Russell (KMC)
/	Fazio,	Company	A.,	1st	Provisional Battalion,
10th Replacement Depot, Whittington ^Barracks,'
Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire,
England, on or about 9 August 1943, desert the service of the United States and did remain	„
absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Kennlngton Lane, London, Middlesex, England, on or about 24 August 1943.
UNITED
STATES )
Private RUSSELL (Nitf) FAZIO (13012666), Company "A", 1st Provisional Battalion,, 10th Replacement Depot.
' i
28 OCT 1943* .
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE II: Violation of the 61st Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Russell (NMI)
Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion,
10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, (then of: ^ Replacement Company rtAn - Separate - ) did, without proper leave absent himself from his Organization at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, from an or' about 2330 hours 5 July 19A3, until he surrendered himself on or about 1255 hours 30 July 1943, at Number 1 Cumberland Place^ London, Middlesex, England.
CHARGE III: Violation of the 69th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Russell (NMI) ■
Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion,
10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, having been duly placed in confinement in United States Post Guardhouse, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 7 August 1943, did, at.United States.Post Guardhouse, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 9 August 1943, escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.
CHARGE IV: Violation of the 94th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Russell (NMI)
Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at
■ Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 9 August 1943, feloniously ’ take, steal and carry away one olive drab blouse, of .the value of less than twenty ($20,00) dollars, the property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof.
CHAR® V:	Violation	of	the 93rd Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	Private Russell (NMI)
Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at 10 Pitney Street, Vauxhall, Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about 18 August 1943, unlawfully enter the office of J. W, GADSDE2J AND COMPANY, with intent to commit a criminal offense, to wit, Larceny therein.
-• 2 ■■
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(33)
Specification 2:	In that Private Russell (NMI)
Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion,
10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,
Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at 10 . Pitney Street,.Vauxhall, Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about 18 August 1943, feloniously take, Steal, and carry away, 10 pounds, 9 shillings, and 8 pence sterling, lawful money of the United Kingdom of the exchange value of about $44.32, four small tea . plates, one white tea plate, two tea cups and saucers, five,teaspoons, one tea pot, one tea . caddy with l/4 pound of tea, one table cloth, one towel, one glass towel, one lady’s coat, one biscuit box containing biscuits, one pan of beans,.one can of sliced peaches, quantity of golden syrup, bread and sugar, one large bread knife, two knifes, one tire pressure gauge, one 3-pound packet candles, about ten Health Insurance stamps, six Unemployment Insurance stamps, postage stamps, gent13 mackintosh and one small steel hammer all of the value of about $64.52, the property of
J.	W. Gadsden and Company, 10 Pitney Street,
Vauxhall, Birmingham, Warwickshire, England.
Specification 3* In that Private Russell (NMI)
Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion,
10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,
Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire,
England, on or about 9 August 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry ajvay one Garrison Cap and one pair of oxford tan. sho.es,, of a value of less than twenty ($2p,00) dollars, the property of First Sergeant Gustave V. Anderson,
, Company A., 3rd Provisional Battalion, 10th • Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England-.
He pleaded not guilty to the specification and charge I and to specifications 2 and 3 of charge V, and guilty to the specification and charge II, to the specification and charge III, to the specification and charge IV and to specification 1 of charge V and to charge V. He was found guilty of all charges and specifications. Evidence of four previous, convictions was introduced:	two	by	special court for larceny of L14 from another
soldier and of a 45 caliber pistol, one by special court for escape and one by summary court for failure to obey a lawful command. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor for ten years at such place as the reviewing authority may direct. The reviewing authority ap^rovqd. the findings, except as to Specification 2, Charge V, of which he
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CUiiriuENTIM.
approved only so much of the finding as involves a finding of guilty of larceny of property of a value not in excess of fifty but more than twenty dollars. He approved the .sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant- to Article of War. 50|-.
3.(a) The evidence presented by the prosecution in support of the charge of desertion against the-accused, (Charge I and its Specification) was substantially as follows:
An extract copy of the morning report of Company "A", 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, was received in evidence as Pros.Ex.5, with the, consent of defense, and shows: n10 August 1943 - Pvt. Fazio, Russ.ell,
13012666 from conft. ,to Escaped AWGL 1800 hours as of 9 Aug. (L.C).
26 August 1943 - Pvt. Fazio, Russell,
13012666 A'VOL to Abs. Conft. London 0900 Hrs. as of 24 Aug." (R7).
Private Eugene C, Seiflein, Company "C", 4th Replacement Battalion, Whittington Barraqks, Lichfield, testified that he met accused in Birmingham on 22 August, at the New Street Station, that accused "told me he had a boat boarded for Philadelphia" and requested a loan of two pounds which witness let accused have. Accused "*** handed over his dog-tags to me and told me to destroy them in case he got picked up for investigation" (R7). Accused was in civilian clothes (R8,10).
Lance Corporal A. Scruton, D-7751, Number 6 Company, Canadian Provost Corps, London, while checking Canadian soldiers at Waterloo station in London on 24 August "had reason to suspect that accused might be a member of the armed forces. In our line of duty, we also checked him for his' identity". Accused was in civilian clothes and. had a British civilian identity card in the name of Patrick McGrath. The Canadian authorities turned accused over to the civilian police to check his identity card (RIO). Scruton identified accused as the hams man.he apprehended in London as Patrick McGrath, This testimony was corroborated by Lance-Corporal H. R. Bruneau who was with Scruton at the time accused was taken into custody (Rll),
The accused, his counsel and the trial Judge advocate stipulated (Rll) that if Detective Inspector Joseph Keeling were present as a witness, he would testify that he saw accused in civilian clothes, about 11:00 a.m. on Tuesday, 24 August 1943, at Kennington Police Station where he had been brought for questioning as a suspected deserter. At that time accused claimed he was Irish, that his name was Patrick McGrath,-that he was working at Wolseley Motor Works, .Birmingham and that he was on 14 days holiday. When accused heard arrangements being made to check up with the Birmingham police, he said to Inspector Keeling, "I guess it’s no use giving you a lot of trouble. I am an American and am a deserter from the American Army,
cc
4 -
?m\ki
CONFIDENTIAL
(35)
I	was awaiting a Court-Martial and broke out of the guardhouse at Lichfield about 2nd August. I got the identity card from a drunken Irishman in Birmingham **■**. My name is Russell Fazio, and my Army number is 13012666" (Rll-12).	Inspector Keeling would have testified further	that
accused was delivered to the American Army authorities, and that in consequence of a telephone message, Inspector Keeling examined on 25 August 19-43, the lavatory pan in the Kennington Police Station detention room where accused had been lodged when first brought to the station, and found a number of pieces of paper which were undoubtedly the remains of petrol .coupons, a number of which coupons he was able to almost complete.1
The signed statement of accused dated 25.August 1943, Pros^bc.6, was admitted in evidence upon stipulation of the trial judge advocate, accused and defense counsel that it had been obtained after'accused had been warned of his rights and that he was free from threats and promises when he’gave‘same (R12). It contains recitals indicative of the intention of accused to remain away from the service permanently. "
In> the opinion of the Board of Review there is substantial evidence to support the court's findings of guilty of desertion under Charge I and its Specification (CM ETO 656, Taylor! CM ETO 740, lane; CM ETO 800, Ungardj CM ETO 823, Poteet).
(b)	With reference to charge II and'its specification, (absence without leave from 5 July 1943 to 30 July 1943 terminated by surrender), accused at his own request was sworn as a witness and in the course of his testimony admitted that in July.he was'absent without leave for 25 days.
He also said* "The reason for me going over the.hill, AW0L, is that I
'wanted*to **** get back to the States *#**" (R19). - There is no doubt of acchsed's guilt.	’	-	>
(c)	Accused made a sworn statement on 10 September 1943 (Pros.Ex.7).
It was accepted in evidence with the consent of defense (R13). In it he< detailed his escape from confinement, (Charge III and Specification) and his larceny of government property, viz* a blouse (Charge 17 and Specification) (R25). Accused's statement supported his plea of guilty tb the offenses charged and was of informatory assistance to the court*
I	.	'	“
(d)	In his sworn statement of 25 August 1943 (Pros.Ex.6) accused related in detail the pre-arranged entering of the office of J. W. Gadsden and Company of Birmingham, England, in company with two accomplices with intent to commit a criminal offense (Charge V, Specification 1). His testimony in court (R21-22) elaborates and confirms his former statement. All of the elements of the crime of house-breaking were present (M3M.,
1928, par.149^, p.169). His plea of guilty was not ill-advised and the finding of guilty was in all respects proper.	i	v
(e)	Charge V, Specification 2‘, charges the theft by accused of specified articles of personal property, British money, British Health stamps, British Unemployment stamps and British postage stamps of the
- 5 «
CONFIDENTIAL
(36)	CONFIDENTIAL
value of $64.52, the property of J. W. Gadsden and Company Ltd,, Birmingham, In his sworn testimony in court accused denied the taking of the tea-pots, /the plates, tea, beans, biscuits and the lady's coat "and stuff concerned", but he admitted he had eaten some of the biscuits and canned beans (R22,24).	_	“
Miss Winifred Pansy Marguerite Gadsden, a prosecution witness, testified that she was an employee on 18 August 1943 of J. W, Gadsden Company Limited, Vauxhall," Birmingham, and that articles of personal property described in the specification, excepting the b'rea’d and sugar had been left in the company's office on 18 August 1943 - some inside the safe and some about the office and that they were missing when she re'tumed to the office on the 19 August 1943 (R14-15). She declared that 110.19. 8d in money had been taken and in addition certain petrol coupons.
The fact that the money and personal property (except the lady's coat) was in the office of Gadsden Company whep taken, is evidence 'upon which the inference that the company owned the same may be based (2 Wharton's Criminal Law, sec.1174, p.1494; Underhill's Criminal Evidence, sec. 508, "p.1028),	There was adequate evidence of the de facto existence of
the corporation (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, sec.508, p«103l). The exchange value of the money was $42.31. The evidence as to the value of the stolen articles of personal property is unsatisfactory. Miss Gadsden's testimony while competent and admissible (20 Am.Jur.,Evidence, sec.894, p.752, note 6) obviously was but a guess. Under the circumstances the approving authority was correct in approving only so much of the finding of guilty of larceny of property of a value not in excess of fifty dollars but more than twenty dollars. This is supported by the value of the money alone. In the opinion of the Board of Review the prosecution fully sustained the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt all of the elements of the commission of the crime of larceny by accused, and the record is legally sufficient to support the approved finding (MCM., 1928, par. U8g, P.171).	•	„
-J
. (f) In his statement of 10 September 1942 (Pros.Ex.7), accused related that when he escaped from the guardhouse at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, he entered the squad room of one of the barracks and picked'up pants and a shirt and then he "walked into another room and got a blouse, cap, tie and pair of shoes" which he "put on in the first-sergeant's room" and then left camp through a hole in the fence. First Sergeant Gustave V. Anderson, Company "A", 4th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, a prosecution witness, stated that an olive drab blouse, a garrison hat and a pair of civilian shoes were taken from his quarters 9 August 1943, the blouse being the property of the United States, issued to him for use in the'military service, and the hat and shoes, valued at eight dollars, were his personal property. He identified a blouse shown him as being the one taken" from his quarters at the same time the garrison cap and shoes were taken (R16). Captain Marshall F. Hollis, Infantry,
CONFIDENTIAL
CONriUENTIAL
(37)
Assistant Provost Marshal, 10th Replacement Depot, testified that in response to a telephone notification on the evening of the 25 August that accused had been apprehended, he went after accused whom he found dressed in civilian clothes with O.D. blouse, shirt, necktie, slacks and garrison cap bundled up, waiting to be "transported back to this depot". He identified the blouse found in accused’s possession as that owned by Sergeant Anderson. It had the sergeant's markings on it. "The civilian shoes were worn by the accused" (R17) who admitted taking the garrison cap and shoes from Sergeant Anderson’s room (R24-). The cap included with this clothing, was misplaced in the guardhouse and not produced in court (R18). Specification 3 of Charge V was proved.	t
A. The accused, at his own request, was sworn and gave a detailed story which was actually an admission of all the offenses charged.
5.	Many errors and irregularities involving the admissibility and exclusion of evidence and examination of witnesses have been noted by the Staff Judge Advocate. As they do not materially affect any of the substantial rights of the accused they require no further comment.
6.	Accused is of the age of 18 years and 2 months. He enlisted 7 January 1941 at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, with no prior service. His service period is governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941.
7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, as approved, and the sentence.
8.	Pursuant to paragraph 5£, GO #37, ET0U5A, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, A December 1942, a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to a confinement of not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the crime of desertion in time of war. Article of VTar 42. As accused is under 31 years' of age with a sentence of not more than ten years, the designation
of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement is correct (War I	’	941).
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(38)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
_	2	8	OCT	1943
HD, Branch Office TJAG«, with ETOUSA.
Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA., APO 515, U.S.
TO* Commanding Army.
1. In the case of Private RUSSELL (NlJU) FAZIO (13012666), Company ”An, 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^-you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2* When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 875. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 875).
#(39)
