#(315)
Branch Office of,The Judge Advocate General , .with the European Theater of APO 871.
EOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 1414
UNITED STATES)
* * «	)
v.	)
)
Staff Sergeant RUSSELL D.	)
ELIA (32085738), Recon-	)
naissance Company, 813th ■	)
Tank Destroyer Battalion,	)	,
■ V	)
)
Operations
% MAR 1944
VII CORES.
t
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Down-ton, Wiltshire, England 30 January 1944* Sentencei Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for one year, 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset (England),
i <
OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW.
RITER, VAN BENSCHDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1. The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate Genera} with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Adyocate General in charge of said Branch Office,
.2. Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification!
CHARGE! Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Staff	Sergeant	Russell
D.	Elia, Reconnaissance Company, 813th Tank Destroyer Battalion, did, at a Battal-, ion Training area, approximately seven (7) miles north, northwest of Tidworth, Wilts,
England, on or about 1445 hours, 10 January ,	1944*	involuntarily, with culpable neg-
ligence, and unlawfully kill Technician,
Fourth Grade Shular T, Freeman, Company "C"
813th Tapk Destroyer Battalion, by Shooting
him in the right side of the back with a
twelve (12) gauge shot-gun. '	,
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be 'dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or
(316)
to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for three years. The reviewing authority approved only so much of the sentence as provided for dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for one year, suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement, and designated the 291?th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, as the place of confinement. ,
The result of the trial was promulgated,in General Court-Martial Orders. No. 1, Headquarters VII Corps, APO #3°7« 6 February 1944*
i	i
3.	For the purpose of consideration of the issue involved in the case, the pertinent evidence for the prosecution may be summarized briefly as follows:
1	. ' Preceding a company field exercise accused, in company with Tech-
nician Fourth Grade Shular T. Freeman (the deceased) and First Lieutenant Donald E. Sperry, reached the training area in advance.of the company. The three men then engaged in hunting birds and rabbits. They were driving over the field during such venture in a jeep. Lieutenant Sperry carried a hammerless, single barrel shotgun and accused was armed with a 12'gauge shotgun bearing an exposed hammer. Both guns were loaded (P6)« Immediately prior to the shooting which resulted in the death of Freeman, the party occupied seats in the jeep as follows:	Lieutenant Sperry drove the vehicle -
a left hand drive, deceased sat to his right on the front seat; accused occupied the rear seat (R7). Previous to the fetal incident accused was . heal’d to caution the deceased concerning Lieutenant Sperry's gun which he was holding between the two front seats and which was pointed to the rear in accused's direction (R8,9). Accused also testified to that fact (RI3).
The only evidence regarding the exact position of accused's weapon during the time in question was given when he took thq stand under oath 0$ his own behalf. Ke testified that it lay across his knees, muzzle to hie left and pointing out of the vehicle (R13.lt).
At the time of the fatal shot accused did not have his hands on the gun (Rl6). The sole safety device on the gun was the position of "half cock" of the hammer which required it to be .drawn back ,in the direction of full cock before it could go forward to strike the.primer of the cartridge (R8,13,l6). It was not necessary, however, for the hammer to be put in "full cock" position before it would fall oxr the primer (Rl6).
Immediately.preceding the shot which killed Freeman, the party was riding over the field in the jeep in search of game at a speed of 15 to 20 miles per hour. The ground was stubble and in the nature of a normal field. Two rabbits were flushed while the driver was driving in the direction of some quail. He applied the brakes at once and swerved to the right. The accused's gun was heard to discharge and the load entered the deceased's right posterior chest (Pros.Ex.l) - the right side of his back. Deceased pulled himself out of the jeep, took a step and collapsed - dying almost
- 2 -
(317)
immediately. Following the noise of the shot Lieutenant Sperry heard accused say in an odd tone of voice: "I shot him" (R7.9.13)*
■■a	i
Accused was a supply sergeant, had hunted since he was 11; and was fully familiar with the type of gun he was carrying and with general safety rules and precautions governing the handling of fire arms (R8,l3, 17)» Further, before entering the,vehicle he had checked the safe position of the gun (R15).
, 4» At the c^ose of the case for the prosecution, the defense moved for a finding of "not guilty* (RIO) on the ground that the prosecution had failed to prove the degree of negligence requisite to sustain the allegations of involuntary manslaughter as set forth in the specification of the charge. The court denied the motion (Rll). The motion was not renewed at the conclusion of the evidence. Under the rule of CM ETO 564. Neville any error in denying the motion was thereby waived. , The case will therefore be considered upon the entire evidence.
5* The sole question for consideration is whether the record of trial contains any substantial, competent evidence to support the court's findings of guilty of involuntary manslaughter through culpable negligence. There is neither an averment in the specification nor intimation or inference in the evidence of any unlawful act on accused's part in connection with the homicide. Unless accused's conduct, measured by the standards of the settled law on the subject, amounted to culpable negligence, his conviction must be disapproved and his sentence vacated. It is the proper function and within the province of the Board "of Review to determine whether the evidence is legally sufficient to support inferences of fact and whether the record of trial contains any substantial, conqpetent evidence of guilt (CM ETO 455. Niggt CM 223336 (1942). Bui, JAG., Aug 1942, ' par,422 (5). p.159,162). Whether negligence is culpable under a given state of facts.is ordinarily for the jury; however, it may become a question of law when it is so slight as not to meet the required standard. People v. Angelo, 246 N.Y. 451.159 KS 394.396).
6, The degree ,of negligence required at common law to support a criminal charge is universally recognized as being greater than that which suffices for civil tort actions.
"While the kind.of negligence required to impose criminal liability has been described in different terms, it is uniformly held that it must be of a_ higher degree than is required to 'establish negligence upon a mere civil .issue, and it must be shown that a homicide was not improbable under the facts as.they existed which should/nave^ influenced the conduct of accused,"
(29 CJ sec.141, p.1154) (See also :
Cain v. State, 55 Ga.App.376; I90 SE 371.374jPeople v.Hoffman,294 NYS 444).
-3
Criminality under these circumstances is not predicated upon mere . negligence or carelessness,	♦	’	-
"...•but upon that degree of negligence or carelessness which is denominated.
'gross* and which constitutes such a departure from what would be the conduct of an ordinarily careful,and prudent man under the same circumstances as to furnish evidence of that indifference to consequences which in some offenses takes the place of criminal intent."
V • (Fitzgerald v. State, li2 Ala. 34*39*
20 S, 966).
The courttconcluded in the< last, quoted casp that the mere handling of a pistol to another with the muzzle toward him did not amount to such a reckless handling as to make the resulting,accidental discharge criminal.
The highest (legree of care is not the standard of care to be required in measuring responsibility'under a statute providing that the killing of a human being by the "culpable negligence" of another1shall,be manslaughter. (State v. Homer, 266 Mo. 109, 180 Sff 873).
The case of State v. Custer, 129 Kan. 38I, 282 P. 1071, 1077,
67 ALR 9°9» lucidly explains that "culpable* in the phrase "culpable negligence" indicates some such meaning as criminal, and its use was intended to mark a distinction of some sort between'negligence which is merely a tort, paid for by money damages, and the negligence which is a crime, an offense against society, which must be paid for by penal punishment•“
The case is valuable not alone for its exhaustive treatment of the subject but also for its many citations. A proper understanding of the meaning'of ■culpable negligence" of necessity rests upon the assumption that accused knew the probable consequences, but was intentionally, recklessly or wantonly ipdifferent to the resultB(State v. Stansell, I64 SE (N.C.) 580,382).
Bare^proof of homicide while hunting unaccompanied by evidence that accused was reckless in his manner of hunting or in the handling of his gun - even though the hunting be done oh another's property without a permit - is not a criminal offense^State v. Horton, 139 N.C. 588, 51 SB 945*/! I*RA (NS) 991* 111 Am.St.Rep.8l8, 4 Ann Cas 797)., Ia the cited case the victim's death was accidentally caused by the discharge of the gun when it was unintentionally pointed at him by the accused. The court found no evidence of an unlawful act, carelessness or negligence.
-	-	_	i	>
7.	~ The record of trial in this case is totally devoid of any evidence that accused did or failed to do anything which could reasonably be expected of him. The validity of accused's conviction must be supported, if at all, upon the consideration of whether the mere riding in the jeep over a stubble field with a loadee^' shot-gun resting on the accused's knees, pointed away’from the occupants and with the hammer at "half cock".
-4-
(319)
constitutes "culpable negligence* within the meaning of Paragraph 149a, p.166. Manual for Courts-Martial 1928 and the law set forth in paragraph 6 above. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial does not contain any substantial competent evidence of "culpable negligence", nor of any facts from which it could be legitimately inferred*
It is even doubtful whether the record contains evidence to justify a conclusion that he was guilty of that degree of simple or ordinary negligence 'which would support a civil judgment for damages. The fact that his gun was not equipped with the most desirable type of safety device is not persussive,much less conclusive, on the issue of culpable negligence. It is also to be observed that were it not for the abrupt stopping of the jeep by Lieutenant Sperry, the unfortunate event of Freeman's death would not have taken place. Accused cannot justifiably be charged with the duty of anticipating that such fortuitous circumstances would occur. His actions between the time of stopping and the discharge of the gun were more reflexive than conscious and the fact that he did not then have his hands on the weapon i's not viewed as evidence of reckless disregard of or indifference to consequences. Such evidence falls short of shocking one's sense of proper action under the circumstances which is implicit in the conception and definition of "culpable negligence".
8. For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
XSICK IN HOSPITAL1)
Judge Advocate
-5
“4 MAR 1944 TOs Commanding
1* Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 5o£ as amended by the act of 20 August 1937 (5° Stat, 724I 10 U.S.C., 1522) and as further amended by the act of 1 August 1942^(56 Stat.732; 10 U.S.
C*, 1522) is the record of trial in the case 6f Staff Sergeant RUSSELL D. £11A (3208573S)f Reconnaissance Company, 813th Tank Destroyer Battalion. I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review, and for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings of guilty and the sentence be vacated and that all rights, privileges and property of which accused may have been deprived by reason of such findings and sentence so vacated be restored,
2, Inclosed is a form of action designed to carry into affect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is a draft GCMQ for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the recorcTof“trial with required copies of GCMQ,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
3	Inclst Incl.lt Record of trial ■ Incl.2j Form of Action Incl.3: Draft GCMO
(Findings and sentence vacated. GCUO 19, ETO, 17 Mar 1944)
(320)
1st Ind,
WD, Branch Office T JAG., with ETOUSA. General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.
- 1 -
#(321)
