#(159)
* Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General
with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
NOV 1943 1
CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPFLX, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at London, England, 13-14 October 1943. Sentence as to each: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
'	2.	The	accused	were tried upon the following charges and specifica-
tions r
SHOOTEN: CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Harry J. Shooten,
•	Company	KBn 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation),
ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about >
23 September 1943, in conjunction with Private Sidney R. Currin, Company nB”, 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA, with intent to commit a felony, viz, robbery, commit an assault upon First Lieutenant Lawrence G. Kiser,
Air Corps, 65th Fighter Wing, ETOUSA, by willfully and feloniously striking the said First Lieutenant Lawrence G, Kiser, Air Corps, 65th »
Fighter Wing, ETOUSA, on the head with a piece of iron pipe.	•
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 942
UNITED STATES )
)
)
Private HARKT J. SHOOTEN	)
(12063206) and Private SIDNEX	)
R. CURRIN (13074463), both of	)
Company "Bn, 840th Engineer	)
Battalion (Aviation).	)
I
-1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
CURRIN : CHARGE I: Violation of the 6lst Article~of~War.
Specification* In that Private Sidney R. Currin, Company."B", 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his organization at Matching, Essex,-England, from about 21 September 1943, to about • 23 September 1943. ,
CHARGE II: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification* In that Private Sidney R. Currin, Company- nBn 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 23 September 194-3* in conjunction with Private Harry J. Shooten, Company "B", 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA, with intent to commit a felony, viz, robbery, commit an assault upon First Lieutenant Lawrence G. Kiser, Air Corps, 65th Fighter Wing, ETOUSA, by willfully and feloniously.striking the said First Lieutenant Lawrence G. Kiser, Air Corps, 65th Fighter Wing, ETOUSA, on the head with a piece of iron pipe.
3.	Each of the accused pleaded guilty to the Charge alleging violation of Article of War 93 and guilty to the Specification thereunder with the exception of the words "with intent to commit a felony, viz* robbery", and Currin pleaded guilty to the further Charge and Specification against him alleging violation of Article of War 61. Each was found guilty of the charges and specifications upon which they were tried. Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction of Private Currin, absence without leave for one day, and of two previous convictions of Private Shooten, one for absence without leave for. three days and -one for breaking restriction. Each accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the- service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due and to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 10 years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chlllicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 50&. .
A. The evidence,, uhcontradlcted except in a few very minor details, shows that First Lieutenant Lawrence G. Kiser, Air Corps, 65th Fighter Wing, was in the vicinity of Mercer Street, London W.C., at about 3*30 in the morning of 23 September 1943 when one of accused approached him from his left and asked where he was going. A short distance ahead the other accused approached him on his right. They all discussed looking for rooms when without notice or warning the Lieutenant felt a rather severe blow on his head.. As he staggered against a wall from the effects of the
- 2 -
'CONFIDENTIAL
(161)
CONFIDENTIAL
blow, one of the accused held the Lieutenant's arms against the wall and demanded his money. At-about this moment a flash-light beam was shone on the three of them and a police sergeant appeared and asked if he could help the Lieutenant who, somewhat dazed by the blow, requested the police-sergeant to take the names, serial numbers and addresses of the two accused (R7). When produced, the pass of accused, Currin was out of date. -The police sergeant then, at the further request of Lieutenant Kiser, arrested both accused. At the same time he picked up a piece of pipe which his light disclosed lying on the ground where the Lieutenant was standing, which pipe the police sergeant produced in court where it was admitted in evidence, with consent of defense, as Pros.Ex.l. Currin's pass, covering authorized absence from 1800 hours 18 September 194-3 to midnight of 20 September 194-3 was produced,-identified and introduced in evidence with consent of defense as Pros.Ex.2-(RIO). -Lieutenant Kiser and both accused appeared sober . . (Rll). With consent of defense, an extract of the morning report of-Company "B", 84-Oth Engineers (Aviation), was received in evidence as Pros.
Ex.3, showing Private Currin 21 September 194-3, duty to absence without leave.	•
The two accused - were picked up at the Bow Street Police Station and returned to the military detention barracks on 23 September 1943 by Private Edward J. Smith, 32rd Military Police Company, stationed in London (R12).
*
Each of accused made a written sworn statement to Staff Sergeant William C. Yerg, Investigations Division,.Provost Marshal General's.Office, on 23 September 1943, after each had been duly warned. The statement of accused Currin, with consent of defense, waB admitted in evidence as Pros.
Ex.4.	In It Currin admitted overstaying his leave;-that he met accused
Shooten in Piccadilly Circus, London, about midnight.of 22 September 1943 and they planned to assault and rob someone; that Shooten gave him a piece of pipe which he identified aa the piece of pipe shown him by Sergeant Yerg, and which pipe he used to strike the officer on the head at the same time demanding his money. Sergeant Yerg also took a sworn written statement from accused Shooten on 23 September 1943 which was', produced and with consent of defense admitted in evidence as Pros.Ex.5 (R14). In bi9 statement, accused Shooten recites that he found a piece of pipe on the ground near the Liverpool Street Station the evening of 22 September 1943 which he picked up and put in his pocker; that later he met accused Cprrin, a member of his company; that he learned Currin had overstayed his leave and was "broke" and that they decided they would hit somebody over, the head and rob him. He gave Currin the pipe which was the same piece of pipe shown him by Sergeant Yerg and which was later used by Currin in striking the officer on the head when his money was demanded (R14).
5.	Both of accused were sworn as witnesses at their request. Shooten denied striking. Lieutenant Kiser; said that he informed the Lieutenant he was "sorry this has happened" after he had been struck on the head find offered to "get a bobby to help him to a hotel" (R16). He admitted that
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(162)
CONFIDENTIAL
he and Currin planned to rob somebody and that he picked up the pipe and carried it for sometime and that he was about a foot in front of the lieutenant .when he was struck by accused Currin who was just ’behind the officer. Accused Currin stated that they were with the officer "at least a half hour" before the blow was given with the pipe (R17)j that the officer was intoxicated and that he struck Lieutenant Kiser on the back of the head at the time when accused Shooten asked for his money. Accused Currin admitted he asked Shooten to search the lieutenant and Shooten refused. He also admitted the plan to rob somebody and that when he hit the lieutenant on the head he intended to take his money.- He identified Pros.Ex.1 as the pipe used.
6.	The extract of morning report of Company "B", Pros.Ex.3> shows Currin as absent without leave on 21 September 1943. Pros.Ex.2 showed Cu_Tin's pass as expiring at midnight 20 September 1943. Although Currin pleaded guilty to Charge I and its Specification, the proof sustains the finding of guilty in the absence of such plea.
*	.	i
In proof of the assault with intent to rob in violation of Article of War 93» it is necessary to show (a) that the accused assaulted a certain person an alleged, and (b) the fac.ts and circumstances of the case indicating the existence at the time of the'assault of the specific intent of the accused to commit robbery as alleged (MCM., 1928, par,149 1, p.180). Both accused admit all the facts required as proof and the record evidence fully shows the offenses committed as charged.
In the charge against Shooten the specification alleges that he, with intent to commit a felony, viz: robbery, did commit an assault on Lieutenant Kiser by striking him on the head with an iron pipe. The proof is specific that it was Currin who actually administered the blow. This was not a fatal variance of proof. Shooten and Currin by preconcert design determined to commit robbery and both actually participated in the attack on Lieutenant Kiser. Both were principals although it was Currin who actually committed the assault (CM ETO 72, Jacobs and Farlev: 22 CJS., sec.82(c),p.l47; sec.88(b)l, p.158; Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, 254 H.S, 189, 65 L. Ed., 214).
7.	Accused, Sidney R. Currin is-21 years 11 months old. He enlisted at Washington, D.C., on 27 July 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months.
Accused, Jarry J. Shooten is 23 years 3 months old. He enlisted at New York City on 17 April 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months.
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review
- 4-
CONFIDENTIAI.
CONFIDENTIAL
(163)
is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.
9.	Pursuant to paragraph 5£, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942, a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years or where he has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Assault with intent to commit a felony is such an offense and the approved sentence as to each accused is ten years. Both conditions of the order are present. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense alleged of assault with Intent to commit a felory (18 U.S.C., sec.455; 35 Stat. 1143)* TCar Department directive (AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941) requires that prisoners under 31 years of age with sentences of not more than ten years be confined in a Federal Correctional Institution or Reformatory. The designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, is correct.
- 5 •
CONFIDENTIAL
(164.)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
12 NOV 1943
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOOSA.	TO:	Commanding
General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private HARRY J. SEOOTEN (12063206) and Private
SIDNEY R. CUKRIN (13074463), both of Company BBB, 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentences as to each accused, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50£ you now have authority to order execution of the sentences.	,
2.	When copies of the published orders are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 942. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orders: (ETO 942).
E. C. llcNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(165)
