#(13)
TSAR DEPARTMENT In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review. BTO 25.
SEP 29 1942
UNITED STATES v.
Captain JOHN F. KENNEY, (0-90li81;0), 3With Engineer Regiment.
HEADQUARTERS, SERVICES OF SUPPLY
Trial by G. C. U. convened at Cheltenham, England, September 3 and U, 19U2. Dismissal.
OPINION of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and. IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above, having been referred by the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, the confirming authority, prior to his action thereon, and pursuant to the provisions of Article of War I4.6, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Office of The Judge Advocate General in the European Theater of Operations who, under the provisions of the last paragraph of Article of War 50a, has, with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, and, to the end that the accused should have an independent review of the record of trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in keeping with the qp irit of Article of War 5o|-, having been referred by the Assistant Judge Advocate General to the Board of Review for examination and review, has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its opinion and holding thereon, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General,
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications r
CHARGE Is Violation of the 95th Article of War.
Specification 1:	in	that	Captain	John	F.	Kenney, Ccrps of En-
gineers, did, at Gloucester, Gloucestershire, England, on or about July 28, 19U2, wrongfully accost Kathleen Webb on a public street, and against her will, grasp her, force her into a vacant area and therehold her until aid summoned by her outcry forced him to release her.
Specification 2:	In	that	Captan	John	F.	Kenney,	Corps	of	En-
gineers, did, at Gloucester, Gloucestershire, England, on or about July 28, 191+2, in public in the vicinity of the
390379
25
junction of Oxford and Denmark Roads, •wrongfully say to Lily Ellis, a resident of Gloucester, in the hearing of other such residents, "You English swine, you are all cowards, all of you", or words to that effect*
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War*
Specificationf in that Captain John F* Kenney, Caps of Engineers, did, at Gloucester, Gloucestershire, England, on or about July 28, 19H2, wrongfully strike Francis V* Egan on the fac$ with his fists*
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the charges and specifications* No evidence of previous convictions was introduced* He was sentenced to be dismissed the service* The reviewing axthority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 1|8.
3* As the facts are disputed, the testimony is. rather fully set out. The evidence shows, by accused's own testimony, that he is a Captain of Engineers, stationed at Ashchurch, and that, on the night of July 28, 191*2, he went to Gloucester (R £8) on a motorcycle to find a W.A.A.F. with whom he had a date. Filing to find her or to accomplish a second attempted date with the first girl's chum, he made an engagement by telephone with the telephone operator who was trying to put through his calls (R 98). By his testimony, he was to meet her for a moment at 8:30 that night, when she had a temporary rest period. He says he did so meet her (R 59) and made a date to meet her again at 11:00 P.M. in the alley on which the entrance to the telephone office was located. At eleven o'clock, after a social evening drinking with same new-found friends (R 59), accused returned to the alley or lane and there encountered a sentry, who asked him if he was looking for Kathleen Webb. He replied in the affirmative, and the sentry said she had left word for an officer that might come there j that she had gone home, stating directions as to her route (R 60). Accused further stated that this girl came up to him, as he came out of the alley, and said that, as every place was closed, the only thing to do was to go on back home; that she got on the motorcycle with him and told him where to go. He claims they decided to stop a couple of blocks from her home and talk a while. They got off the motorcycle and, at his suggestion, went into the yard of a girl's school and stepped over to where it was dark, at which time she insisted she must go right home. Accused told her he didn't like that after waiting all evening for her (R 61) and "sat her down". She screamed and tried to "scamper" when accused grabbed her by the arm as she'was trying to pull away. A Mr. Egan appeared and asked what was going on. Some women also appeared on the scene. Egan struck accused andduring the fight the girl broke away and disappeared, and they all went outside the gate. Egan was taken to a house
•2303 79
(15)
across the street (R 62) and accused stood with his back to the gate to protect himself. He remembers saying at the time that they were all ''pig-headed11 and "smug", for he was not molesting the girl but just standing there holding her. "She was just jerking and pulling." Accused tried then to find his motorcycle, but missed it. The police, who had just arrived, informed him where it was and he, at his own suggestion, went to their headquarters and made a written statement. Accused testified that, before leaving the scene, Egan came out and shook hands with him and everybody agreed Egan had been a little hasty (R 610 • The testimony of the accused covers nearly eighteen pages of the record and beginning with his schooling as a boy and outlining his educational and professional background. He insists that he held the girl only as proof that nothing wrong had happened and that he had not molested her (R 62).
Kathleen Webb, a Gloucester telephone operator, the prosecuting witness, identified accused, and testified she first met him about ll:0f> the evening of July 28, 19U2, (R 6), on Northgate Street, when he rode up on a motorbike, stopped aid offered to take her home and die ' refused (R 7);then, later he again stopped her but she went on and tried to avoid him but again he intercepted her, and dragged her across the street (R 8). She fell down in a school gateway and tried to run when accused grabbed hold of her and tried to touch her under her clothing (R 21)j she continued to struggle and then screamed for help and a man came and tried to release her and eventually she got loose aid ran home (R 10). She did not make a date with accused (R 10);did not ride on the motorcycle at any time (R 2U); but she was close enough to smell liquor on his breath (R 20, 23).
Her story is in part corroborated by witness Egan, who was badly bruised by accused in the fight to release the girl and who denied that (R 26) he struck any blows after the girl was released or that at any time later he shook hands with accused (R 29); by witness 'White, who saw the motorbike as it stopped on Oxford Road (R 31) and, as he passed, saw a soldier and lady standing by it (R 32); that shortly thereafter, he heard screams and returned in time to see somebody being led or carried across the road from the gate, to some houses on the other side and, going to the house, he recognized Egan (R 33) • He (White) called the police. He also heard the accused, a big man in uniform, directly across the road by the iron gate, call the people there abusive words. "His exact words were, 'English swine, you are yellow'", and he also said he was a German. Witness Lily Ellis, housewife living directly across the road from the school yard gates, who, on the evening in question, was about to retire, when she heard repeated cries for help from across the road. With her daughter and next-door neighbor, LIrs. Wilkinson, crossed the street and saw two men struggling and a girl who ran past them; one man was in khaki uniform with two bars on his Moulder (R
**0379
-3-
25
39) and the other was a civilian, who asked her, "For God's sake, get some help and get this man away from me (R 38)” • They succeeded in getting the civilian away and across the street into her home, the officer shouting, "Where is he, let me at him". "You interfering British swine" • He also said he was of German descent and proud of it (R 38). Accused was identified by witness Henry A. Ellis, who arrived as Egan was being taken across the street; the Captain (accused) was there and used very insulting remarks, calling them "interfering British swine", and among other things, "yellow" and "curs" (R 1*6).
He saw there Mr3. Wilkinson, his own wife and two daughters and Mr*
White. Witness Henry Freeman, was at this mother's house (R 1+8), There Miss Webb stayed. Then Miss Webb arrived that night some time after 11:30. She ran into the house in a very distressed condition, her legs from the knee down being covered with mud and blood.
On the other hand, a vital part of the testimony of Kathleen Webb, and of the other witnesses, is seriously contradicted by two disinterested witnesses. The witness, Mrs. Nellie Wilkinson, testified that she resides immediately opposite the entrance to the school grounds, 71 Denmark Road (R 1+2); that, at about 11:30 P.M. on July 28, 19U2, she looked out of an upstairs window of her home and saw a gentleman in uniform and a lady crossing the road toward the high school and heard the school gate open and close (R 1+2, 88); they were walking together quite casually, as an ordinary couple (R 1+1+, 88). The couple walked rather quickly and Mrs. Wilkinson heard the woman's high heel shoes clicking on the pavement (r 1+2, 88); and there was nothing unusual in their conduct noticed by the witness (R 88)•
The witness, Ik*. Sidney H. White, at about 11:20 P.M. on July 28, 191+2, was proceeding on foot up Oxford Road on the left-hand sidewalk, and he observed a soldier and a lady standing alongside of a motorbike on the opposite side of the street, in front of Mrs. Wilkinson's house (R 32, 35, 36, 81+) • The couple were embracing and there was no sign of a struggle; and the embracement was mutual (R 83, 81+, 87).
1+. David Wagstaff, Polios Inspector of Gloucester, as a witness for accused, testified (R 70) that he first saw accused about 8:30 P.M. the night of July 28, 191+2, leaving Bull Lane and walking across the road to the Woolworth shop, and again at the Gloucester police station at 12:1+0 A.M. that night when witness had been informed of an assault which had occurred and accused voluntarily came to the station to give the details. He informed accused that he was not obliged to radce any statement unless he wished to do so, but that whatever he did say would be taken down in writing and might be later given in evidence. Accused made a statement, which was produced in court but not placed in evidence. Five officers (R 7U-77), with whom accused had served for periods up to three months, also appeared as character witnesses for him, and testified as to his excellent qualifications and service.
-1+-
2*0473
25
(17)
5>. The defense submitted to the Staff Judge Advocate, Headquarters, Services of Supply , European Theater of Operations, a letter-brief on behalf of the accused, -wherein it is asserted that the accused was denied substantial rights by not having been given an opportunity to examine the available witnesses at the time the charges were investigated under Article of War 70.
Article of War 70 provides in pertinent part;
" * * •* At such investigation, full .opportunity shall be given to the accused to cross-examine witnesses against him, if they are available, and to present anything that he may desire in his own bhealf, whether in defense or mitigation, and the investigating officer shall examine available witnesses requested by the accused (underscoring supplied) •*- *».
"The provisions of A. W. 70 with reference to investigating charges are mandatory and there must be a substantial compliance therewith before charges can be legally referred to trial. A court-martial is without jurisdiction to try an accused upon charges referred to it for trial without having first investigated in substantial compliance with the provisions of A. W. 70 and, in such a case, the court-martial proceedings are void ab initio." (Dig. Ops. JAG,
1912-19UO, Sec. ij.28 (1), page 292.)
There is no authority for paying mileage or witness fees in such preliminary investigation (Dig. Ops. JAG, 1912-19U0, Sec. U28 (U), page 293)•
The accused is entitled to cross-examine all available witnesses who testify at the trial (Dig. Ops. JAG, 1912-19U0, Sec. Ij28 (3), page 293)*
The right of cross-examination, made mandatory by the statute, is dependent upon the availability of the witnesses at the investigation of the charges. If they are not available, the right of cross-examination does not exist. The record of trial in this case clearly shows that the prosecution's witnesses were civilians, living in Gloucester, 60 miles distant from the accused*s station and the headquarters of the officer ordering the investigation.
Statements of the witnesses were obtained by the Gloucestershire Constabulary, and copies of the same were forwarded by the Chief Constable to the accused on August U, 19l|2, being the day prior to the submission of the same to the Provost Marshal, Headquarters, SOS. The bial (of the charges) commenced on August 26, 19U2, The accused and his counsel therefore had the time and opportunity to examine these witnesses, who would submit to examination, before the trial. The records show that
2*0319
~s~
25
(IS)
the accused did not object to proceeding to trial after arraignment, aid did not raise this question after arraignment nor at any time during the course of the trial.
The word "available" means accessible or capable of being used to accomplish a purpose (Corpus Juris Secundum No. 7* page 1301). There is no method provided whereby these witnesses could have been subpoenaed to appear before the investigating officer at the headquarters of the officer ordering the investigation, and there is no 31 thority for the payment of witness fees and mileage of such witnesses. Under such circumstances, the Board of Review is clearly of the opinion that these witnesses were not "available" within the purview of A. W. 70j that the rights of the accused were fully protected by the procedure followed, and that the court acquired aid held jurisdiction to try the charges against the accused.
6.	Charge II and its specification alleges that the accused did, at Gloucester, England, on or about July 28, 191+2, wrongfully strike Francis V. Egan, on the face with his fists. The specification alleges an offense under A. W. 96 (MCM, Sec. 1$2 c, page 189). Thereby, the accused is charged with having committed an assailt and battery on the civilian Egan (MCM, Sec. U+9 1, page 176). The evidence establishes the commission of the offense beyori3 all peradventure. The accused's testimony is sufficient in itself to sustain the finding of guilty, aid, when read in connection with the prosecution's evidence is so convincing that no detailed discussion of same is necessary. The only question that can arise in connection with this feature of the case is whether or not accused acted in self-defense. This point is vigorously urged by the defense counsel in their letter-brief and has been carefully considered by ±he Board of Review.
A reconstruction of the scene is not difficult. Egan, believed a girl of tender years - a high school girl - was the subject of a bodily attack (R 28). Upon receiving Miss Webb's plea, "Make him let me go", he reacted in a most natural manner. He attempted to free the girl from the accused's hold by striking accused in the face. Assisted by the women who had arrived on the scene, Egan continued his effort to secure the girl's freedom and, during such progress, accused, frightened by the unseemly and awkward predicament in which he found himself, also reacted naturally. He did not know how seriously he was threatened. The blows he struck Egan while Egan and the women were wrestling with him to secure Miss Webb's freedom may, with all propriety, be considered as struck in self-defense. The fact, however, that accused continued his battery upon Egan, after Egan and the women had ceased their physical hold on him, entirely nullifies such plea. From the moment Egan withdrew his hands from accused's body and Miss Webb bad been freed, the accused was r» longer in a position of peril. He renewed the fight after his opponent Egan had withdrawn. The accused is charged with the knowledge that the whole pur-
-6-
25
(19)
pose of the intervention of Egan and the women was to free the girl, ho other interpretation can, with reason, be placed on the evidence.
"It is not the defendant's mere notion that he is about to be attacked that justifies; but there must be circumstances leading the defendant, according to his rights to expect an attack('7harton's Criminal Law,
Vol. 1, Sec. 226, page 1115)".
Treating Egan as the original aggressor, and admitting that the accused, during the scrimmage, having for its purpose the release of Hiss VIebb, had the right to protect himself within reasonable limits against the trespass on his body committed by Egan, there came a point when this right of self-defense ceased and, if accused continued to strike Egan, his attack becemie an original battery.
"But if "A" really and evidently withdraws from the contest, and resorts to a place of security, and "B", his antagonist, knowing that he is no longer in danger from "A", nevertheless attacks "A", then "A's" rights in self-defense revive (Eharton's Criminal Law, Vol.
1, Sec. 616, page 832)".
The proof is clear that accused struck Egan several times after Egan's trespass on accused's body had ceased and Hiss Webb had been released. Judging the situation from the position of accused at this time, it is a most reasonable conclusion that accused was not in peril, nor was his safety threatened. In the opinion of the Board of Review, the record is therefore legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty -under Charge II and its Specification. Dismissal is authorized upon conviction of a violation of the 96th Article of Vi’ar.
7.	Specification 1 of Charge I alleges an offense under the 95th Article of Ear, and in the opinion of the Board of Review, the prosecution has sustained the burden of proving the commission of the offense by accused. The evidence is convincing that the accused, at a time after lljCO P.H. on July 28, 19A2, restrained Hiss ™ebb in an unlighted school yard against her will, by use of force. He admits such conduct (II 61, 62), tut the evidence of the prosecution, independent of accused's judicial admissions, is more than sufficient to sustain the finding.
There is a sharp conflict in the testimony as to whether accused "wrongfully" accosted Miss B'ebb on a public street. Likewise, there is a substantial conflict in the evidence as to whether accused, by use of force and against her will, took her to the school grounds. Hiss Eebb insists that she had no pre-arranged engagement with accused (R 10); that she never met him prior to the time he accosted her at the intersection of Uorthgate and V/estgate Streets (R 12); that immediately
2S0J79
-7-
(20)
thereafter, on three separate occasions, at three separate points, 7*11116 she was walking towards her home, he accosted her (R 12, 13) and, finally, he dragged her across Denmark Road into the school grounds (R 13, 82). The accused specifically contradicts Miss Webb and swore that he met her on the same evening at 8:00 P.M. and arranged to meet her again at 11:00 P.M., when she quit work (R 59* 68); that he did meet her as she left her place of employment (R 60); that she voluntarily became a pillion rider on his motorcyle (R 60, 66); that he drove up Oxford Street in the direction of Denmark Road (R 60);that he parked his motorcyie on Denmark Road and the girl and he Trailed into the school yard (R 61). He denies categorically that he dragged Miss Webb across the street into the yard (R 65); or that he-used any force whatsoever to procure her presence in the yard (R 65).
Partial corroboration of accused’s testimony is found in the testimony of Mrs. Nellie Wilkinson, a British civilian, who testified that she saw from one of her upstairs Tdmdows at a time after 11:00 P.
K., on the night of July 28, 19U2, a gentleman in uniform and a lady cross Denmark Road in a casual, orderly manner in the direction of the high school grounds, and that there tvbs nothing unusual in their conduct (R 14;, U8). Further corroboration of accused’s statement is furnished by Mr. Sidney H. White, a British civilian, vriio testified that, at about 11:20 P.M., on July 28, 19; 2, he was proceeding on foot up Oxford Road, when he observed a soldier and a lady standing alongside of a parked motorcycle in front of Mr. Wilkinson's house, and they were in mutual embracement with no sign of struggle (R 32, 35, 36* 21;, 87).
Allowing the accused the full benefit of this testimony of Mrs. Wilkinson and Mr. White, and accepting it, as corroboration of accused's contention that Miss Webb accompanied him to the high school grounds of her own volition, and free from compulsion on his part, the fact remains that there was created but a conflict in the evidence and it was a duty and function of the court to resolve this conflict. It had the witnesses before it, observed their demeanor on the stand, and had the benefit of personal contact with the persons involved. While, in this case, the Board of Review is permitted to weigh the evidence as shown in the record, it does not believe it should substitute its conclusion for that of the court. The story told by Miss Webb concerning the methods pursued by accused in escorting her to the school grounds, is not so inherently improbable or inaccurate as to justify the Board of Review in refusing to accept the findings of the court. The court elected to believe Miss Webb after undoubtedly considering all of the surrounding circumstances, including the testimony of Mrs. Wilkinson and Mr, White, instead of the accused's version of the affair. With this determination, the Board of Review can find no fault.
Assuming, however, that MissWebb did enter the school grounds with accused freely and voluntarily (and thereby concluding that the
280379
-8-
25
(21)
prosecution failed to prove the allegations of Specification 1, that accused did "•wrongfully accost Kathleen Webb on a public street, and against her will grasp her, force her into a vacant area11) the glaring fact remains that she desired to leave the grounds, and to depart for her home, and the accused, by his own admission, forcibly held her against her mil, until, by her outcries, she attracted the presence of nearby householders who secured her release. (The remaining allegations of the specification:	"and	there	held	her until aid summoned
by her outcry forced him to release her" being therefore proved without contradiction.) In addition, Lass Webb asserts that a struggle ensued between her and accused while they were on the school grounds (R 9, lU) while she was endeavoring to force herself from accused's hold. In the melee, she fell against the gates and struck the ground (R lli). The accused tacitly admits such occurrences (R 61).
The facts of this affair admitted by accused and proved beyond a reasonable doubt, are such as to constitute a violation of the 95 th Article of War. The accused prowled about the public streets of an English town in the night seeking "dates" with any woman who would accept his company. He finally arrived at a speaking acquaintanceship with a public telephone operator; and he escorted her (accepting his version as being true) to the dark obscurity of a public shool grounds. The facts may only "be opposed to good taste or propriety and not consonant with usage" but when they are considered with the undisputed fact that the woman was forcibly restrained by the accused from departing from the scene of their conflict (when probably she rpanted her indiscretion or became frightened at the portents of the situation), forces the Board of Review to conclude that such conduct "was unbecoming an officer and a gentleman" within.the meaning of the 95th Article of War (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents (2nd Ed.) page 711).
8.	Specification 2 of Charge 1 alleges that the accused did "in public * * * wroqfully say to Lilly Ellis, a resident of Gloucester, in the presence and hearing of other such residents, 'You English swine, you are all cowards, all of you,' or words that effect". The specification alleges an offense under the 95th Article of War (Withrop's Military Law and Precedents (2nd Ed.) page 718. The evidence shows that after Kathleen Webb had fled the scene of the disturbance and the altercation between accused and the witness, Egan, had been stopped, accused applied to the assembled householders (who had been attracted by Miss Webb's outcries)opprobrious epithets. Mrs. Ellis was present at this time. Witnesses testified accused used the following expressions:
S. H. White (R 33)	-	"English swine, you are yel-
low."
Mrs. Lilly Ellis	-	"You	interfering British
swine, I am of German origin and proud of it."
-9-
25
Henry Alfred Ellis (R 16)	-	"Interfering British
'	svdne.M (He also
said we were) "yel-
lOYf" .
The acmsed admits he v/as angry and did apply epithets to Mrs. Ellis and her neighbors (R 62, 63), but insists that he said to them that "they were pig-headed and smug, and it seemed to me in all reasonableness a person could expect a little more consideration, a little bit more of an investigation before they go off half-cocked like everything had (R 63, 66)". He denied emphatically that he said he was a German, explaining that he was of Scotch-Irish descent (R 66).
A most casual reading of the testimony is convincing that the accused was angry and embarrassed by the turn of events. He considered that there had been an unreasonable interference by residents of the neighborhood. He was also probably apprehensive as to his own safety (R 62, 63). He admits he did criticize the assembled people fcrtheir conduct. The difference betvreen the testimony of the prosecution's Yfitnesses and the accused's statement of Yvhat he said is only one of degree, and, in any event, such conflict as there was in the evidence was a question of fact to be resolved by the court. It chose to believe Messrs. ’White and Ellis and Mrs. Wilkinson. The Board of Review is un-willing to disturb such determination.
A consideration of the evidence pertinent to this specification is convincing that accused conducted himself towards the British civilians, on the occasion of this episode, in a manner for which there is neither condonation nor explanation. The behavior of the accused towards Miss Webb, viewed in the light most favorable to accused, is perfidious , but accused's language and actions when he vras forced by a group of irate British citizens to free Mass Webb from his hold, is of such serious nature as to pass beyond the domain of propriety or good manners. It involves the relationship of American military personnel to77ards the civilians of an ally in whose country a substantial American military force is stationed. Under these circumstances, the conduct of accused assumes a more serious mien than if he were guilty of the same acts in the United States. In the opinion of the Board of Review, the prosecution sustained its burden of proving the guilt of the accused under Specification 2, Charge I.
9.	The accused is thirty-six (36) years old. The record shows that he was commissioned Captain, AUS, on May 10, 19U2, and was assigned to the 3UUth Engineer Regiment. This was an original appointment and no prior service of accused is shown.
10.	The court was legally constituted. Ho errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. In the opinion of the Board of Review, the record of trial is
25
230379
-10-
(23)
legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Dismissal is mandatory upon a conviction of a violation of the 95th Article of War, and is authorized upon a conviction of a violation of the 96th Article of War.
11.	The accused testified at length concerning his civilian career and activities and his military experience prior to accepting his present commission. The Board of Review has no reason to doubt his representations in this regard. It appears that he has had a broad experience as an engineer and also as a construction superintendent. Fellow officers, who have been intimate with him during his present, tourof duty, testified that his reputation has been unimpeachablej thau he was unusually interested in the welfare of his men) and that he bore a high reputation as an officer and a gentleman. The Board of Review believes that this officer is able to render valuable service in the prosecution of the war effort. In his training and transportation to the British Isles, the Government has expended a considerable sum of money for which it is entitled to receive substantial yaL ue. The offenses for the commission of which the accused has been convicted are most serious and arevierad with particular disfavor by the Board of Review. He has earned severe strictures and condemnation. However, the Board of Review, believing that the Government should have the opportunity of availing itself of the services of accused at a time when services of the nature which the accused is capable of rendering are much needed, recommends that the sentence of dismissal of accused be confirmed but the execution thereof be suspended at the pleasure of the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations.
25
-11-
1st Ind
(24)
J.A.G.O., ETOUSA, A.P.O. 871, 29 September 19U2.	-	To	the	Commanding
General, ETOUSA, A.P.O. 887.
1.	Herewith transmitted is the record of trial, together with the opinion of the Board of Review, in the case of Captain John F. Kenney (0-90U8U0), 3Uith Engineer Regiment (AUS).
2.	Upon trial by general court-martial, this officer was found guilty of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman (two specifications), in violation of Article of War 9Si and assault and battery, in violation of Article of War 96. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. ' The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial to you, for your action, under Article of War 1|8.
3.	Prior to your action thereon, you referred the record to mr; under the provisions of Article of War U6, and, in order to expedite final action in the case, and more especially to insure to the accused the independent and impartial examination of the record of trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in. keeping with the spirit of Articles of War U8 and Sob, under the provisions of the latter article and, before examination by me, I referred the record to the Board of Review for its examination and opinion. Normally, pursuant to instructions of The Judge Advocate General, action by the confirming authority (other than the President) is required, under the provisions of the third paragraph of Article of War $0-|, before the record is referred to the Board of Review and Assistant Judge Advocate General. However, your reference of the record to me, prior to your action thereon, under the provisions of Article of War U6, which expressly authorizes such reference, since I, as Assistant Judge Advocate General, have, under the provisions of the last paragraph of Article of War Sob, with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, changes the normal situation indicated above. Under such circumstances, should I pass on the record under Article of War U6, in lieu of and as your staff judge advocate, and return the record for your action prior to its examination by the Board of Review, it would then be necessary, after your action, for the Board of Review and myself, as Assistant Judge Advocate General, to examine the record to determine its legal sufficiency. Such a procedure would deny the accused the independent review of the record by the Board of Review, provided by Article of War $0|, since the report of my examination and my recommendation under Article of War I4.6 would be a part of the file of the case when it reached the Board of Review. It would also place me in the anomalous position of acting as staff judge advocate under Article of War U6 before the review by the Board of Review
25
230378
(25)
and as Assistant Judge Advocate General after such review under Articles of War 1*8 and 5>0i« In my opinion, to follow such a procedure would deny the accused a substantial right given him by Articles of War 1*8 and	On	the	other hand, by following the procedure I have
adopted denies the accused nothing, but fully protects his rights* I am convinced this is the procedure The Judge Advocate General would follow on a reference to him, under Article of War 1*6, for the reason that, in such event, he would occupy the dual role of staff judge advocate and The Judge Advocate General, as he does when the President is the confirming authority, and would follow the procedure prescribed for the latter class of cases.
1*. The Board of Review summarizes the evidence in the accompanying opinion and holds that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence and to warrant confirmation of the sentence. I have carefully examined the record and, while not concurring entirely with the views expressed by the Board, I do concur in the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence and to warrant confirmation of the sentence.
5* a. As to Specification 1, Charge I, it is my view that the conflict between the testimony of accused and that of the prosecutrix can more consistently be resolved in favor of the version of the latter, as the court, by its findings, obviously did so resolve it. I am forced to this conclusion largely by the vein of evasiveness which runs through the testimony of the accused, by his apparent lack of frankness, and by the fact that important parts of his testimony are inconsistent in import, if, indeed, not actually contrary, each to the other. In my opinion the weight of the evidence established the guilt of accused beyond any reasonable doubt.
b. As to Specification 2, Charge I, the evidence is even stronger. ""True, the witnesses do not entirely agree as to the exact language, but they are in substantial agreement and more cannot be asked. Under such circumstances^ the memories of witnesses usually differ, and
meticulous agreement would be ground for suq>icion. Certainly all heard the terms, "swine”, "cowards", and "yellow11. Accused admits making some remarks in anger. According to the evidence, including his own, it seems obvious that his condition as to sobriety was not such as t o place credence in his memory. His testimony that, instead of the terms mentioned by the other witnesses, he used "pig-headed" and "smug" has earmarks of a forced explanation which, to my mind, is neither convincing nor clever. The evidence fully supports the findings.
c.	As to Charge I, the acts charged in the $Bcifications without question constitute conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman.
Guilt of the specifications having been established, guilt of the Charge follows as a matter of course.
d.	The testimony of accused alone sustains the findings as to the Specification of Charge II, and Charge U. I question the legal ac-
£3037*)
25
curacy of the Board's opinion that the blows struck by accused before Miss Webb's escape "may, with all propriety, be considered as struck in self-defense”, since, in my view, the actions of Egan throughout were legally justified, and self-defense excuses only the repulse of a wrong, and "is only permissible against an unlawful attack (Section 128, Wharton's Criminal Law)”. However, since the Board and I agree on the legal sufficiency of the record as a whole to support the findings, further discussion of the difference of opinion would be purely academic.
6.	The brief of the defense counsel has been considered. As to the investigation, there was a substantial compliance with Article of _ War 70 and paragraph 35 a. Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928. More is not required. Accused was permitted to read the available testimony, was advised of his rights and stated that he did not desire to offer anything in defense or mitigation, or to make or subnit a statement in any form at that time. The remainder of the brief is an attempt to show that the evidence fails to establish the guilt of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt. It is purely argumentative and »I am not impressed.
7.	While recommending confirmation of the sentence, the Board
of Review further recommends that the execution thereof be suspended at your pleasure. In this further recommendation I cannot concur. The reasons given by the Board are that it appears that the accused has had broad experience as an engineer and construction superintendent} that fellow officers testified as to his good reputation and his interest in the welfare of his mani, that	has	expended	a	considerable
Siam on his training/ana snould have tne opportunity of availing itself of his services at a time when such services are much needed.
Such an argument, it seems to me, could be advanced in practically every case of dismissal that may confront us. The Government also has spent a considerable sum on every officer in the theater. It is to be assumed, at least, that all of these officers are qualified to render essential service. The need for such service is, of course, appreciated and admitted. But, as necessary and desirable as their services may be, in the prosecution of any war the personal conduct of our officers is also a vital factor. As well said by the staff judge advocate of the reviewing aithority in his review, - punishment has two purposes, - reformation and prevention, the latter being the more impor tant, particularly in this theater where our troops, and especially our officers, are considered as representatives of our Government, and their misconduct reflects directly on our Government and its military . leaders. It is highly essential for the conduct of our officers to be kept at a high standard. Unfortunately, casualties will occur in this field as well as on the field of battle, and it is as inportant to endeavor to keep the conduct casualties to a minimum as it is to keep bat tie casualties to a minimum.
i
(27)
Y/ere we concerned solely with the punishtment and reformation of the accused, I would be more inclined to follow the Board’s recommendation. However, on this score I do not think a strong case for clemency is made out. This officer has been in the service only since Kay 10, 19h2, most of the time, prior to embarking for this theater on July 1st, spent in training. This comparatively short period of observation and association scarcely furnishes adequate opportunity accurately to judge one's character. He had been in the theater but two weeks vrhen the affair which precipitated his trial took place. He is a married man. Even accepting his own version, his conduct with Hiss Webb was reprehensible, and, in the words of the Board of Review, his "language and actions when he was forced by a group of irate British citizens to free Miss Webb from his hold, is of such serious nature as to pass beyond the domain of propriety and good manners. It involves the relationship of American military personnel towards the civilians of an ally in whose country a substantial American military force is stationed. Under these circumstances, the conduct of'the accused assumes a more serious mien that if he were guilty of the same acts in the United States".
Nor is this the type of case -where the misconduct occurs "within the family", so to speak, where it is known only to our own military personnel. There, often reformation is the primary object of punishment and suspension of the execution of a sentence of dismissal may well be justified. Here, however, the performance was staged in public, before a British audience, and was investigated by British authorities. This brings into full play the importance of punishment as a deterrent. To suspend the sentence under such circumstances well might give;, rise to an erroneous impression with many young officers unaccustomed to the Army and unaware of the standard of conduct expected of themj and to our allies such leniency would smack of temporizing.
To them it would appear that the accused had escaped punishment, and they could be expected to conclude that our "severe" punishments were merely camouflage set up to deceive them as to our real purpose.
To place ourselves in this position is, to my mind, untenable, and could easily result in discrediting our forces., as well as our Government, with the British nation. Hence, regrettable as ordering the execution of a sentence of dismissal may be, I am convinced that this is not a case for temporizing. Bdng the first case of the kind in this theater, the action on this sentence will set a precedent, in that it will serve notice on the officers of this command as to what they may expect should their conduct materially fall below the standards desired and demanded of officers of the Army of the United States; and will furnish to the British public and the British authorities an illustration of our conception of standards of conduct and the measures taken by us to insure•compliance with and to punish violations of such standards.
Moifc)
(28)
I	accordingly recommend that the sentence he confirmed and ordered executed; and I further recommend that* should you decide to suspend the execution of the sentence, this officer be not kept within the British Isles.
8.	Inclosed herewith is a form of action confirming the sentence and directing that it be carried into execution, and also a form of action confirming the sentence and suspending its execution.
2	Inclss Forms of action.
(Sentence confirmed and ordered executed. GCM3 1, ETO, 2 Oct 1942)
E__d____________,
i
Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations.
25
#(29)
