#(303)
BOARD OF REVIEW •
1$ Feb 1944
ETO Dm.
UNITED	STATES
)	EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF .
)	SUFPLT, EUROFEAN THEATER OF OPERA-
)	TIONS.
)
)	Trial by G.C.M., convened at
)	Kettering, Northamptonshire, Englaid,
)	21 January 1914;. Sentence: Dishonor-
)	able discharge, total forfeitures and
)	confinement at hard labor for three
)	years. The Federal Reformatory,
)	Chillicothe, Ohio.
v.
Private GEORGE R. RIESS (I303bl86), Detachment "H", Headquarters Detachment,-Headquarters Eastern Base Section.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	93rd	Article	of War.
Specification 1: . In that Private George R. Riess, Detachment H, Headquarters Detachment, Headquarters Eastern Base Section, did, at Easterp Base Section Transient Camp Number One, Northanptonshire, England, on or about 27 December 19U3, feloniously, take, steal and carry away certain property, to wit, one pair of government issye wool olive drab trousers and one government issue wool olive drab shirt all of the aggregate value of about nine dollars and seventy-two cents ($9.72), the same being the property of the United States Government and duly issued to Technician Fourth Grade James R. Leonard, Detachment H, Headquarters Detachment, Headquarters Eastern Base Section.
Specification 2:	(Finding	of	Not	Guilty).
-1-
(304)
CHARGEE II: Violation of the 6lst Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private George R. Riess, Detach-
ment Hj Headquarters Detachment, Headquarters Eastern Base Sectipn did, without proper leave absent him- •
.self from his organizatioA and station at Eastern Base Section Transient Camp Number one, Northamptonshire, England, from about 0800,.29 December 19U3 to about 1300, 8 January 19W+. .	4
nn	.
_CHARGE' IIlV Violation of the 96th Article of War.
(Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification: (Finding df ^ot Guilty).
*	»	.	■	r	i	-	'	■	v
... He pleaded not guilty, and was found not guilty of Specification 2,
Charge, I, and of Charge HI and its Specification, guilty of Specification 1', Charge I and Charge I, and of Charge II and its Specification. . Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction by summary court- ■	.
martial fbr breach of restriction in violation of Article of War 96.
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewingauthority mqr direct for three years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence,withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War and designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement.
* ’ . - .... -
3.	Larceny of Government-owned property may be laid under Article of War 93 (See CM 195l;51t, Fisher} CM 197131, Brantley). .There was no direct evidence that the shirt and trouseirs described in Specification 1, Charge I, were property of the United States as alleged, but each of these articles is described as being "olive drab" and "general'issue" (R8j.Pros. Exs.B,C), and the owner testified that chevrons -were, on the shirt before ... it was stolen and that the shirt was issued to him when he became a , soldier (Rll-12). The articles were introduced, in evidence. The question ■’ as to whether the articles described were the property of the United ' States was one of fact for the sole determination of the court, and in view of the evidence summarized above the Board of Review will not disturb its findings (CM ETO 132, Kelly and Hyde).
U. The only question requiring consideration’is the propriety of the designation of a Federal Reformatory as the place of confinement.
MGMi 1928, par.90b, p.8l, provides:	.
"Subject to such instructions as may be issued from time to time by the War Department, the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth,
KanSi, or one of its branches, or a military post, station, or cam£>, will be designated as the place of confinement in cases where a penitentiary is not designated."
2-
(305)
Confinement in a reformatory is authorized only -when confinement in a penitentiary is authorized by law (CM 220093, Unckel). Confinement in a penitentiary is not authorized in this case because no offense of which accused was found guilty (larceny of property of a value not exceeding $30 and absence without leave) is recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by any statute of the United States of general application within the continental United States or by the law of the District of Columbia. (AW h2; 18 U.S.C. sec. l*66j Cf: 18 USC 82 as amended h April 1938, Chap.69j 32 Stat. 197)•
3. The charge sheet shows that accused is 21 years of age and that he enlisted 8 August 19U0 at Fort Thomas, Kentucky for three years and that the period of his service was extended for the duration of the war plus six months. He had no prior service.
6.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review holds the record of trial legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for three years in a place other than a penitentiary. Federal reformatory or correctional institution.
- 3 -
1st Ind
J.3 0 -UiU.
15 FEB 1944
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA;	TO:	Commanding
Officer, Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 517, U.S. Army,
1,	In the case of Private GEORGE R. RIESS (1505A186), Detachment H, Headquarters Detachment, Headquarters Eastern Base Section, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for three years in a place other than a penitentiary, Federal Reformatory or correctional institution, which holding is hereby approved. Upon designation of a place of confinement other than.a penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correctional institution, you will have authority to order execution of the sentence
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this'Office is ETO 1/11. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order (ETO Ull). • - ; -
// /e. C. McNEIL, / t Brigadier General, United Stages Ani& Assistant Judge Advocate General.1
#(307)
