#(33)
Branch Office of the Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1146
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private CLIFTON W. LANE	)
(15085960), 1970th	)
Quartermaster Truck	Company )
Aviation.	)
- 8 JAN 1944
VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at The Guild Hall, Hull, Yorkshire, England, 3 December 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for three years. Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York,
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the‘soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review,
2,	’ Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	86th Article of War.
Specification: 1. In that Private Clifton W. Lane,
1970th Quartermaster Truck Company Avn being on Guard and posted as a sentinel at, an American and British Motor-pool, Hull, Yorkshire, England, on or about 1 November 1943 > did leave his post before he was regularly relieved.
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification: 1. In that Private Clifton Vi. Lane,
1970th Quartermaster Truck Company Avn did, at Hull, Yorkshire, England, on or about 1 November 1943, wrongfully take and use without proper authority a certain automobile, to wit: a Three Fourth (3/4) ton Command Recon., property of the United States, of a value of more than ($50.00) Fifty Dollars.
- 1 -
1
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of both charges and of the specifications thereunder. Evidence was introduced of two previous convictions by summary court-martial for absence without leave in violation of Article of V7ar 61, and of one previous conviction by special court-martial for being drunk and disorderly in a public place and for striking a soldier with his fist in violation of Article of War 96. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for five years.. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, reduced the period of confinement to three years, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, Hew York, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of triad for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50a»	•	.
3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to’support the findings of guilty and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority.
4.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 21 years of age, that he had no prior service, and that he was inducted at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indiana for the duration of the war'plu3 six months. He has had one year,"nine months and fourteen days of service.
1st lad.
(35)
. Q I til 1944	'	'
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 0 J	TO*	Commanding
Generali VIII Air Force Service Command, APO 633y U.S. Any.
1.	In the case of Private CLIFTON W. LINE (15085960), 1970th
Quartermaster Truck Company Aviation, attention is invited to the , foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of~guilty, and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^\you now have authority to order execution of the sentence. ■	'
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO H46. For convenience of reference pjeassj^place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1146).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
- 1 -
\

#(37)
