#(337)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the •
European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1453
26 APR 1944
UNITED STATE v.
Private GEORGE E. FOWLER (16052055), Company "E"j' 356th Engineer General Service Regiment, ''
EASTERN BASE SECTION,' SERVICES OF SUPPLY,'EUROPEAN THEATER OF 1 OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Ipswich, Suffolk, England, 19-20 January 1944. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for life,. The United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT,' Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE .1: Violation of the 92nd Article of. War.'
Specification:	In that Private George E..Fowler, Company
"E", 356th Engineer General Service Regiment, did, at or near Birch, Essex, England, on the, main Colchester Maldon Road, on or about 7 December 1943, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with' premeditation kill one Harry Claude Hailstone, of 127 Maldon Road, Colchester, a human being by strangling the said Harry Claude Hailstone.
CHARGE II:	Violation	of	the	93rd	Article of War.
Specification 1:" .(Finding of Not Guilty
Specification 2: In that * * #, did, at the 18th GeneraJ.
Hospital, Cherry Tree Camp, Colchester, Essex,
England, on or about the 5th of December 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away the following described' items of personal property, value
— - 1 -
about & 18-15-0 (American Currency Equivalent 075.54), the property of Captain John Joseph Weber, R.A.M.C.,
13th Canadian General Hospital:
1 - Rain Coat
1 - Gents "Rolex Victory" wrist, watch 1 - pr. Brown leather gloves’
5-1 pound Bank of England notes 1 - Half railway ticket to Haywards Heath from Colchester 1 - Handkerchief 1 - Pencil torch
He pleaded not guilty to both charges and to the specifications thereunder and was found guilty of Charge I and its Specification, not guilty of Specification 1, Charge II, guilty of Specification 2, Charge II except the words "Is 18-15-0 (American Currency Equivalent $75.54)", "1-pr. brown leather gloves", "5 - 1 pound Bank of England notes", "1.- Half railway ticket to Haywards Heath from Colchester" and "1 - Handkerchief", substituting therefor respectively the words "$35.50", of the excepted words not guilty, of the substituted words guilty, and guilty of Charge II, three-fourths of the members of the cqurt concurring. Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction by summary court-martial for absence without leave • for five days in violation of Article of War 61. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for the term of his natural life, three-fourths of the members of the court concurring. The reviewing authority, approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50J.
3.	The evidence was substantially as follows:
On 5 December 1943, Captain John Joseph Weber, Royal Army Medical Corps, 13th Canadian General Hospital, first met accused at the Liverpool Street Station in London. They had "three or four beers" at Captain Weber's suggestion, and took a train to Colchester at 4:00 p.m. When they arrived at Colchester, Weber suggested that they go to his post but accused demurred, saying that he wanted to go back to his own station. The former said that he would "buy him a drink", and they took a taxicab to Weber's post where accused instructed the driver to return for him. They each had three or four drinks of whiskey and 'Weber began to get intoxicated, but he did not think accused was in the same condition. He suggested to accused, "who seemed very nice", that they see each other again. Weber went to the lavatory and when he returned about ten minutes later accused was not in the room. Later that evening he missed his macintosh coat in the pockets of which were his watch, five one-pound notes, a pair of gloves, a handkerchief, a flashlight, and a return ticket from Colchester to Haywards Heath. He did not give accused permission to take any of the articles nor did he offer to lend him the coat. The coat was the only one he owned and he was forced to go away the following day without it. At the trial, Weber identified his macintosh, flashlight and "Rolex Victory!' wrist watch. He last saw accused sometime after 6:00 p.m. that evening, and the only articles thus taken subsequently seen by him were the macintosh, watch and flashlight (R7-12).
- 2 -
(339)
Cm the evening of 6 December, Private Charles Huntley, Conpany B, 356th Engineers, saw accused in London and pawned a watch for him. He gave accused the three pounds realized together "with the'pawn ticket, and was given one pound in return. At the trial he identified the pawn ticket and a "Rolex Victory" wrist watch as the watch in question, and the watch was admitted in evidence (Rl2-14)j (Pros. Ex. 3).
On 14 December, Police Constable James Lawrence, Colchester Borough Police, visited a cell.at the Colchester police station where accused was confined and noticed.that a window in the cell was freshly broken at the .lower right-hand comer. He went outside, removed the blackout board from the,window and found on the window sill a "fountain pen" flashlight marked "J.J.Weber". The flashlight was identified by Lawrence and was admitted in evidence.(R44-45; Pros. Ex. 2).
On the morning of 8 December, the stained macintosh identified by Captain .Weber as his (R7), was.found by the side of the road in Tolleshunt D'Arcy about four miles from the American camp near Birch, by Mr. William
C.	Lawrence, Fern Cottage, Kelvedon Road,_Tolleshunt D'Arcy, who identified the.coat at the trial. It was admitted in evidence (R14-16; Pros. Ex. 1).
On the morning of 8 December a Vauxhall taxicab, number CPU 602, was found on Haynes Green Lane, Layer.Marney, near the American camp at Birch, . The lights were on and the roof was wet, indicating that it had remained outdoors during the night. The car belonged to Harry Claude Hailstone who lived with Mr. and Mrs. Sidney C. Pearce, 127 Maldon Road, Colchester. Mrs. Pearce last saw Hailstone at her home between 11:00-11:30 p.m. 7 December, and she later heard him start the car and go towards Birch (R16-17, 19-21). An examination of the vehicle disclosed that the wires .on the steering wheel and the felting "on the offside" between the two doors were pulled away. On the rear seat were found a fawn colored macintosh (the deceased's) which was bloodstained around the neck and a blue serge coat which was inside the macintosh (R16). Mrs. Pearce identified .the blue jacket as belonging to Hailstone (R22) and Mr. Pearce identi- ■ fied Hailstone is empty note case which was found lying on the floor of the cab and which was admitted in evidence (R17-18; Pros. Ex. 6).
About 1:00 p.m, 9 December, the body of Hailstone, identified by Pearce, was found in the grounds of the Birch rectory about, five miles from Colchester and about 2jj miles from the American carp at Birch. The body was lying on the inside of a hedgerow about six feet, from the Maldon-Colchester. road. The bank was about four feet high, and along its top were brambles and two strands of barbed wire. The body was "caught up in some shrubs and bushes and hung there" with the head toward the bottom of the bank and the feet toward the top. Because of deceased's position and the fact that the brambles surrounding the hedge were not disturbed, it appeared that the body had been thrown over the. bank from the road and that- it had. rolled dowp the other side. Hailstone was fully clad, except fir .his hat, overcoat and jacket.. The face was exceedingly bloodstained and the nose and lips were swollen two or three times their normal size (R18-20).
(3AO)	;
About 4:30 p.m., 9 December, the body of Hailstone was viewed by Dr. Francis E. Camps, pathologist, 99 Harley Street, London. It was his’ opinion that death occurred about 36-48 hours previously and that Hailstone was dead when his body rolled down the embankment (R22-23, 30-32). Dr. Camps performed a post mortem on the body and found extensive bruising on the left sides of the face and nose, a bruising of the left eye, and a cut on the lip caused by a blow which cut the skin inside of the mouth against the teeth. There was an additional bruise on the under side, of the point of the jaw and all bruises were caused before death. On the left cheek was a puncture wound consistent with contact with a sharp object such as barbed wire, which appeared to have been caused either at the time of or just after death, and also superficial scratches which occurred after death and which were consistent with contact with brambles. On the left side of the neck were two very clear imprints, semi-circular, in shape, one of which measured exactly seven-tenths of an inch across at its widest part. They were consistent with thumb nail marks (R 23). On the right side of the neck were three sets of marks "consistent with, and almost typical of finger nail marks," and certain undistinguishable scratches under the chin which wete ['consistent with scratches in pulling the head back". An internal examination disclosed a fracture of the "soundbox", the thyroid cartilage, in its left superior corner, congestion and bruising of the air passages in that area and a similar but lesser bruising of the right side.thereof. Hemorrhages into the scalp were found which indicated obstruction to the veins flowing back to the heart, and also hemorrhages into the whites of the eyes, the eyes themselves, and hemorrhage of the heart. Both lungs were congested with fluid blood and blood was coming from the mouth. In the opinion of Dr. Camps, death was caused by asphyxia due to "left handed" strangulation. This term signified.that strangulation was accomplished with a left hand but not necessarily by a left-handed person. "It was done with a left hand,' the thumb marks being on the.left and the finger marks being on the right" (R23-24, 30). Also present were abrasions on the diins which were "perfectly typical o£ the shins grazing against the dashboard of a car. They would be in a perfect position for that if the body were jerked back whilst in a sitting position" (R24). Considering the position of the marks similar to finger nail marks and the shin abrasions. Dr. Camps was of.the.further opinion that Hailstone was strangled.from behind while he was sitting in the driver's seat of the car (R30-31).
On 17 December, Dr. Carps measured the thumb nails of accused and one Leatherberry (Private J; C. Leatherberry,. Company A, 356th Engineer General Service Regiment). The right thumb nail of Leatherberry was exactly seven-tenths of an inch at its widest point and was rounded in shape, as was his left thumb nail which measured six-tenths of an inch. The right thumb nail of Fowler was ,65 of an inch and was pointed in shape whereas his left thumb nail measured seven-tenths of an inch and was rounded (R25). Of the four nails of Leatherberry and Fowler, "the only one that would be consistent" with the mark on the neck which was seven-tenths of an inch in width, "would be the left hand of Fowler, assuming that it was left hand, but it would also be consistent with the right hand of Leatherberry, assuming it was right hand". However, in Dr. Camps' opinion "it quite definitely was a left-handed inflicted mark" (R26-27).
ThE measurement of accused's and Leatherberry's nails had'occurred about 10 days after Hailstone's death, and such measurements could be affected by a change in the nails between the time the injury was inflicted
- 4 -
(341)
and the tine at which the measurements were taken. Dr. Camps was of the further opinion that accused's nails Ucould not have been cut in the meantime hut Leatherberry's nails might have been." "* * * in my opinion the right hand of Fowler could not have inflicted these marks, because the right hand of Fowler when I saw it had a fairly pointed nail which clearly had not been interfered with mechanically over some period.
It would have taken a considerable time to have grown a nail like that # ■*.m As accused's right thumb nail was sharp and his left thumb nail rounded. Dr. Camps could state "categorically11 that his right thumb nail could not have caused the mark on deceased's neck which was undoubtedly caused by a rounded thumb nail (R31-33).
Dr. Camps took specimens of deceased's blood, scrapings from his finger nails, and on 17 December took scrapings from the nails of accused and Leatherberry (R25).	*	•
Admitted in evidence by virtue of a stipulation by the prosecution and defense were photographs of the taxicab, the body of Hailstone, the thumbs of accused and Leatherberry (Pros.Ex.10), and a map of the area in question (Pros.Ex.il) (R35). It was also stipulated that a pair of bloodstained long underwear was found among the possessions of Leatherberry and that the underwear belonged to him. It was admitted in evidence (R45j Pros.Ex.12). The prosecution and defense further stipulated as to the transmission of certain exhibits (RJ+5).
On 13 January, Major E. R. Quinn, Medical Corps, 336th Engineers, * took samples of blood from accused and Leatherberry. Accused's blood was found to be type B and Leatherberry's blood, type 0. There are four types of blood. A, B, AB and 0 (R42-43).	*
Dr, James Davidson, Director of the Metropolitan Police Laboratory, Hendon, examined a sample of blood of IJailstone and found that it was type AB, a type found in 5% of the population. His blue jacket was bloodstained. An examination of Ex, 1 (Weber's raincoat) disclosed that the inner and outer surfaces ware extensively bloodstained, and the blood belonged to group AB (R35-36, 39). Leatherberry's long underwear (Pros.Ex,12) were bloodstained on the inner and outer surfaces of both sides of the fly opening and on the top of the waistband at the front. The blood was of the AB type (R38). Scrapings from the nails of deceased, Fowler and Leatherberry were admitted in evidence (R38; Pros.Exs, 7>8,9). Examination of the scrapings, taken .from the finger nails of the three men revealed the presence of blue, fibers which were similar to fibers taken from Hailstone's blue jacket which was found.in the taxicab. The scrapings from Leatherberry's nails further disclosed the presence of human blood in all fingers of both •' hands, insufficient, however, in amount for grouping purposes. A trace of blood was found in the scrapings from the nail of the. third, finger of Fowler's left hand, which was insufficient in amount for grouping purposes or for..a determination as to whether it was human blood (R37**39).„ Deceased's blue jacket was admitted in evidence (R42j Pros.Ex.5)« •
\
- 5 -
Sergeant Stephen J. Graham, C.I.D. Detachment, APO 633, VIII Air Force, identified the pawn ticket for Captain Weber*3 "Rolsx Victory" wrist watch. The .ticket, which he found while searching accused's barracks bag, was admitted in evidence (pj+1-42; Pros,Ex,4). On 13 Decem-' ber after being warned of his rights accused made a statement to Graham which he signed after the latter reduced it to writing. On 17 December, . after again being warned of his rights accused made a second statement to Graham. Both statements were identified and admitted in evidence (R40-41; Pros.Exs.13,14). The two statements are substantially,the same with reference to events concerning Hailstone., and accused subsequently testified in hie own defense that the second statement (Pros.Ex.14) was the correct one with regard to events relative to the alleged theft of the property of Captain Weber (R48,58). .
Pros.Ex.l4-was,’in pertinent part, as follows:
Accused met Weber in London on 5 December, accompanied him to Cherry. Tree camp and remained at Weber's quarters for about an hour. Weber gave him his raincoat and shortly thereafter "passed out" because of an over-indulgence in drink. Accused unsuccessfully attempted to sober him up, then-went to Colchester where-he put on the coat given him by Weber.
He felt something in the pockets but paid no further attention. He took a bus from Colchester to camp and got off at the White Horse '.'pub" where he drank with a soldier whose name-he later discovered was J.C.Leatherberry. He .and Leatherberry then went by train to London, arrived about 11 p.m.
5	December, and spent the night in a rooming house. Before getting on the train he put his hands in the pockets of Weber's coat and found a wrist watch and a pencil flashlight which were the only contents of the pockets.
He knew that Weber did not intend to give them to him. On 6 December he met Huntley who pawned -the wrist watch for him and gave him two of the . three pounds received and the pawn ticket. Huntley kept one pound. Accused pawned the watch because he needed the money, and did not intend to re-* turn the watch or the flashlight to Weber.
On 7 December .accused and Leatherberry took the 8:45 p.m. train from London and arrived at Colchester about 10:20 p.m. On the train Leatherberry "continually" told accused he needed money, that he was "broke" and "was going to get it any way he could get it". He suggested that they rob the driver of the taxi-cab. which they would take from Colchester to camp. When they left the train at Colchester, Leatherberry said he was paid and accused loaned him Weber's raincoat. The driver of the taxi which they took at the station stopped at a house in Colchester, told them to wait and that he vrould return immediately. Leatherberry, who thought the driver was going to get a gun, told accused that he • ■ (Leatherberry) would tell the driver to stop by the side of the road and . that he would rob him. The driver returned in a few minutes and drove- toward Birch. About four miles from Colchester, Leatherberry told the driver to stop as he wanteii to urinate. Accused, who was sitting in the left rear seat, left the car "to have a leak" but Leatherberry remained in the vehicle. While urinating he "heard a struggle". leatherberry called and asked if he was going to help him. Accused did not reply, finished urinating, re-entered the rear of the cab and saw Leatherberry holding the
- 6 -
(343)
driver by the throat with one hand and	pounding	him	with his	other hand.
The driver was limp, the upper part of	his bod;'-	was	over.the	front seat
and the lower part was in the front seat.' Leatherberry, who	was then
wearing Weber's raincoat, "asked me to	help him	get	the body	out of the
taxi as we had to get away from there". "He told me that I was in this just as much as he was". Vlhen Leatherberry said this he was searching the driver Is pockets and had some papers, a billfold and a wallet in his hands. Leatherberry then seized the driver's shoulders, pulled him out of the right rear door and accused grasped his feet. They carried him across the street and pushed him under a wire fence. "We did not .. know whether or not the taxi driver was dead when we left him. He was unconscious". Accused did not know what eventually happened to ’Weber's raincoat and did not recall seeing it after the disposal of the body.
Vilien they returned to the cab, accused took the driver's seat and Leatherberry sat beside him. He drove about a tenth of a mile toward camp and then changed places with Leatherberry who said he wanted to drive. They drove to llaldon where they left the car and approached a policeman who was asked by Leatherberry when the train left ilaldon for London. When he replied that there were no trains to London that night, accused said he. was going back to camp and drove the car in that direc- ■ -tion. On the way Leatherberry told him to park the car "along the road someplace". Accused finally parked the car "on the road to Company'C'", turned off the headlights "but might have left the parking lights on". They left the car and went to accused's hut where "the boys were shooting craps". Leatherberry said that it was no place for them, whereupon they , went to Company B guard tent and spent the night. Accused awakened a±
8 a.m., did not notice whether or not Leatherberry was still there, went to his own tent and fell asleep. After the charge of quarters to_ld him . twice that the company commander wished to see him accused went to that officer. On the night of 9 December Leatherberry came to his hut and told him that he heard the taxi driver was dead. Leatherberry had the driver's cigarette lighter at the time. At an identification parade on 16 December he identified Leatherberry as the soldier who accompanied him to London on 5 December and who returned with him to camp in a taxi-cab on 7 December.
/ In Pros.Ex.13 accused stated that when he returned to the cab after urinating, "his friend" (Leatherberry) was standing in the rear of the car, holding the driver's throat with.his left hand £nd punching him in the face with his right hand.
4.	After receiving an explanation of his rights accused testified in substance as follows:
He was 22 yeqr3 of age, attended high school but was not graduated. He left school about 1939 because his mother was ill and he was forced to work (R70-71). • After he entered the Army he taught cooking..
He was later "transferred to the Arizona Quartermaster, and I continued doing the same thing". His grade was that of first cook but he was subsequently relieved. "Vihen I came in here I was running a mixer; brick-
(344)
layers" (R77)
The statements,contained in Pros.Ex.13 to the effect that Viewer was not. drunk, that accused did not p^wn the watch but found the pawn ticket in London, and that the pockets of the raincoat were empty were false. He was freightened because Graham, who was in a hurry, was shouting questions at him in a loud tone of voice. Accused desired to protect the British officer who befriended him and did not want to disclose that the officer was drunk, "When Graham later told accused that he had secured a statement from the officer, he decided to tell the whole story and gave the second statement contained in Pros.Ex.14 (R47-48, 57-58, 65, 67-68),
He further .testified that Weber told him it was chilly outside and urged him to take a coat. At the time the officer was "quite & bit high" and was -reeling. Accused had a good deal to drink but controlled himself. He tried without success "to sober" Weber but the only-response he received was hiccups (R47,49-50). When he left he took the raincoat "he had given me", found the watch and-pencil flashlight in the pockets while enroute to London, but did not find any other articles or any money. Another man pawned the watch for him and accused kept two pounds and gave the other fellow one pound. He kept the pawn ticket because he intended to redeem the watch and return it to its owner (R50, 52-53, 58,64-65,70).
The .window in the Colchester police station was already broken when he entered the cell and he laid the pencil flashlight across the opening. It ' accidentally fell outside when the blackout' board was removed (S58-59,65).
Vihen he left Colchester with Leatherberry for London accused had about.three pounds. Leatherberry did not have enough money to buy the^r tickets to London and accused paid his companion's expenses while they were in London (R52). They left London for Colchester on 7 December at 8:45 p.m. Vihen Leatherberry first mentioned on the train that he needed money and was going to rob the t axi driver, accused was "half high" and paid no attention.
He thought he was "kidding". In his opinion Leatherberry had not been -drinking anything. "He can drink but he cannot drink much and if he has drunk anything he is drunk."- He loaned Leatherberry Weber's coat when he complained of being cold at the Colchester station. Villen the driver stopped and entered the house in Colchester, Leatherberry wondered if he was going to get a gun and again stated that he was going to rob the driver. "He said this was a chance (and) that he would do his job". Accused, who was.not perfectly sober but who was not drunk, still thought he was; joking (R53-54, 59-60, 64-66). Nothing was said at this time about stopping the driver later on (R76). About four miles from camp, Leatherberry told the driver to stop the carf
"Vihen the cab driver did stop.he told me to take a leak and I had to take one * * *. Vihen he told the cab driver to stop,-1 thought he was going to take a leak and nothing else was in ry mind and I gets out." (R74).
Accused got out of the car on the left hand side.
* *and I still do not think he is going to do it.
* '* * I was outside slowing around, staggering around.
I was not in a hurry. I was taking a leak when I heard a bumping and banging inside the cab and I heard a gurgle and a strangling noise, a yell. 'Perhaps fE
- 8 -
(345)
was not a yell* I heard a noise of a gag, a strangle and he calls to me was not I going to help him. I -still did not give an answer". (R54)»
lie had not completed urinating at the time and did not return to the cab when he did finish,. Instead he "slowed around" about four feet in the rear of the cab (R54-55). Asked on cross-examination, if he did not have "a pretty good notion as to what was going on" when he heard the noises, accused testified:
"Well, I would not say for sure, sir. No, I did not. I did not have anything like that in mind, A person might turn around and.move his feet in a car and make quite a lot of noise". (R62).
The noises did not continue very long. "I should say four or five beating noises were made, and when I finished I-started back t© the cab with intent to go in". As he returned the struggle was "not as loud" as it was at first. He saw Leatherberry, who was not left handed, holding the driver by the throat with his left hand and hitting him with his right. He had pulled the driver from the front to the rear Seat so that his back was across the front seat. Accused could see the driver's white shirt, but did not notice any kind of a coat or blue jacket that night. He saw Leatherberry deliver one or two blows but did not try to stop him because the driver was "out" and was not moving (R55,61-62). Leatherberry had some papers, a bill-fold and a cigarette lighter belonging to the driver (R6l). He said, "Help me to get .this guy in here. Vfe have got to get away from here. It is better that we get away from here" (R55)« He told accused he "was in it as much as he was". Asked on cross-examination, why Leatherberry said that, accused replied "Because I was in his presence" (R61), He told Leatherberry he was getting him in trouble, walked around to the right side of the cab and grasped the driver's feet.- Leatherberry took his shoulders and they carried him across the road and rolled him under a fence. The driver was not wearing a colored jacket at that time. Accused did not think he was dead because he did not believe "a person would be that easy to kill". He thought he was merely unconscious (R55,60-61,70-71).
Upon their return accused told Leatherberry "I was doing wrong", • and said that he was going to his company; They re-entered the cab and accused began to drive to can?). After they hiad gone a short distance Leatherberry said he wanted to drive and accused consented because he thought he would drive to the camp. YJien they reached the turn to "C" Company Leatherberry drove on despite accused's request that he let him out. He said he was. going to Laldon to get a train and said "You are in it now as much as.mg". Accused replied that he was getting him in trouble (R55,60,63,
66), At Laldon Leatherberry asked £ policeman what time the train left for London and was inforihed that there was no train that night. Accused,said nothing to the policeman.but told Leatherberry he was going to his company.
He drove back to camp, parked the car near "C" Company, and the. two men went
M53
- 9 -
to accused's hut where they found some soldiers gambling. Leatherberry said "This is no place for us. You do not want to be in your company until the.
8th", and they then went to the guardhouse of Company "B", .where each took a bed. Accused awakened about 7:30 a.m., went to his barracks and slept until 10:30 a.m* when he was awakened "in a daze" by the charge of quarters. (R55-56,63).
On the evening of 9 or 10 December Leatherberry came to his hut and said that he heard the cab driver was dead. "He asked me what I do about it, and I told him I had not anything to think about it. He asked me was I turning yellow." Leatherberry had the driver's cigarette lighter at the time (R56,6l).'r Later, when they were in the stockade Leatherberry threatened him.
He "told me that once before he-was in trouble. He was in trouble as a youngster. * * * He said: 'The kid turned yellow', and he said: 'There were boys outside who took care.' I spoke then and said: 'What do you mean?' So we had a few words" (R56). .
During the episode with the driver Leatherberry was wearing the raincoat (Yieber's) which accused loaned to him at the Colchester station. He last noticed the coat on Leatherberry just before the latter took the wheel on the way to Haldon. He. was not wearing it when they returned to camp, but accused did not know when he took it off (R62-63). VJhen he discovered that the driver was dead he did not report his knowledge of the case, for to, do so would make him an "Uncle Tom." Leatherberry told him to keep quiet, "to know nothing about the case" (r62,66*-67).
\
5.	Recalled as a.witness by the court,.Captain Weber testified that he did not at any time make a statement which(might lead accused to'believe that he was agreeable to the taking of the coat. He entertained accused in the quarters of a Major Savage and left the raincoat on the bed (R77-79). The value of the coat, watch and gloves was 18 pounds, 15 shillings. Also in the pocket of the coat were 5 pounds. The value of the torch was 50 cents and the value of the watch, which was a gift, was about 037*50. He paid 025 in Canada for the raincoat which was over-three years old at the time of trial (R79-SO).
Private Clifford F. Hall, Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps, 13th Canadian General Hospital, a witness for the court, -testified that Captain Weber and accused came to Cherry Tree Camp and that the former asked for a room. Hall temporarily gave him another officer's quarters and a few minutes later entered the first room and told Weber that his own room was ready.
He "was all lit up", was dozing in a chair drunk, and did not seem to hear.
Hall told accused, who seemed .to have perfect control of himself, to try to get 'Weber up to his own room. When Hall last saw accused he was wearing a trench coat, told Hall he was "going out to get something to fix up Captain Weber" and that he would return (R81-85).	'
Also called as a witness for the court was Private J. C. Leatherberry, Company A, 356th Engineer General Service Regiment, who was accompanied by his regularly appointed defense counsel, and who first received from the president of the court an explanation of his rights under AW 24 and Mdl, 1928,/ par.122b, p.129. Leatherberry1s defense counsel announced that he would tell Leatherberry whether or not to answer each question as it was propounded
(347)
. Upon being questioned by the court his testimony was in part as
"Q. Private Leatherberry, at the Colchester Station, when . you were returning with the accused Fowler from London, • the accused had a raincoat-or mackintosh. 'Did he lend - * that mackintosh to you?
First Lieutenant Crane: The accused will claim his constitutional rights in this case and will refuse to answer. **#**««*
Q. Are you aware of the fact that Fowler had a mackintosh ■or a .raincoat of a light colour which was allegedly given to you the last time when you and he were out together?
First Lieutenant Crane: Private Leatherberry, you may answer the question.
A. I do not remember him having a mac.
Q. * * *: You know what -a mac is?
A. I remember his O.D. uniform, and that is all.
Q. Did he have a raincoat of his own?
A. I do not know, sir.'* (R87-88).
Sf
Leatherberry further testified that on the night of 7 December he was not with accused in a taxicab driven by Hailstone, nor did he drive in a cab to lialdon with accused. He was not with him in a taxicab on roads in the vicinity of Birch Airdrome, Maldon or Colchester on or about 7 December (R 88). He did not leave London for Colchester with accused on 7 December but left London on 8 December about 10:25 a.m. He arrived at Colchester about noon, and took a bus to camp where he arrived about 12:45 p.m. with five other soldiers. He went to his area and did not report. First Lieutenant Dennis Roberts saw him in the area, asked him to come to the orderly room and did so. On 6 December he was with accused in London "a while in the morning and a while in the afternoon”. He claimed his privileges with regard to the question whether he was in London with accused at any time on 7 December. During the time he was in London he did not borrow any money (R89-91).
6.	There is no evidence that Leatherberry or accused contemplated Hailstone's murder as such,* or that accused instigated or actually perpetrated the assault upon him. If the findings of guilty of murder are to be sustained it must necessarily be on the basis that prior to the homicide accused joined Leatherberry in a plan to rob the taxi driver and in some manner aided and abetted him in the commission of that offense. The Board of Review will subsequently consider the fact that accused was found not guilty of robbery.
The'distinctions between principals, aiders and abettors have been abolished by Federal statute.	•	-r	■
"Whoever directly commits any act constituting an offense defined in any law of the United States,* or aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces, or procures its commission.
(R85-87)
follows.
(348)
is a principal.» (18 U3C 550j 35 Stat.1152).
The distinction is also not recognized in the administration of military-justice (Uinthrop's military Law & Precedents - Reprint, p. 108; CM ETO 72, Farley and Jacobs).
it* *and to constitute one an aider and abettor, he must not only be on the ground, and by his presence aid, encourage, or incite the principal to commit the crime, but he must share the criminal intent or purpose of the principal. .'.ihitt v. Commonwealth, 221 Ky 490, 298 S.W.
1101" (Morei v. United States, 127 Fed (2d) 827, 831)
. (Underscoring supplied).
« Mere presence during the commission of an offense by another, without more, does not constitute one an aider and abettor (CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al).
"Something must be diown in the conduct of the by-stander which indicates a design to encourage, incite, or in some manner afford aid or consent to the particular act; though When the by-stander * * .* knows that his presence will be regarded by the perpetrator-as an encouragenent - and protection, presence alone may be regarded as an encouragement. * * *. It is not necessary, therefore, to prove that the party actually aided in the commission of the offense; if he watched for his companions in order . to prevent surprise, * * * or was in such a situation as to be able readily to come to their assistance, the knowledge of which was calculated to give additional confidence to his companions, in contemplation of law he was aiding and abetting"- (1 VJharton's Criminal Law, 12th Ed.,
■sec. 246, pp. 333-334).
"On the other hand, where one's presence is by preconcert, he may be guilty as an alder and abettor, although neither by word nor by act does he encourage or discourage the commission of the felony. * *	(22	CJS, sec.88b (4),'
p.161).
If the proof shows that a person was present at the commission of a crime without disapproving or opposing it, the jury may consider this conduct in connection with other circumstances, and thereby conclude that he assented to the commission of the crime, lent to it his approval, and was thereby aiding and abetting the same (People v. Cione, 293 HI, 321, 127 N.E. 646,
12 AIR 267,273, and State v. Maloy, 44 Iowa 104, cited therein at pp.280-281). •'
"Mere presence and participation in the general transaction in which a homicide is committed is not conclusive evidence of consent and concurrence in the per-: petration of a crime by a defendant sought to be held" ' responsible for the homicide, as aiding and abetting the actual perpetrator, unless such defendant participated in the felonious design of the person killing. Whether
- 12
(349)
or not there was such participation is to be determined' by the jury, under the facts and circumstances of the case". (Fudge v. State, 148 Ga. 149, 95 S.E. 980 -Annotation 12 ALR p.277)»
In order to convict of an offense
11# * * the proof must be such as to exclude not every hypothesis or possibility of innocence but any fair and, rational hypothesis except that of guilt; what is required being not an absolute or mathematical but a moral certainty" (MCM, 1928, par.78a, p.63).
Common law murder includes the essential element of premeditation or "malice aforethought". Malice aforethought may exist where the act is unpremeditated. It may also exist in the intent to commit a felony (LICLI,
.1928, par.148a, pp.163-164). An intent to kill is not a necessary element in the crime of murder in those cases where the design is to perpetrate an unlawful act, and the homicide occurs in carrying out that purpose (Viharton's Criminal Law, Vol.l, sec.420, p.632).
11* * * an intent’ to kill a particular person is not an essential element in murder, where an unlawful act is done deliberately with the intention of * * * inflicting serious bodily harm, and where death ensues from
i such unlawful act"(Ibid).
"In every case of apparently deliberate and unjustifiable' killing the law presumes the existence of the malice necessary to constitute murder, # *	(T.7in-
throp's Military Law and Precedents - Reprint - 1920,
p.673).
In United States v. Boyd, 45 Fed. 851 (reversed on other grounds in 142 U*S. 450) the trial court charged the jury in part as follows:
"Robbery has the very element that enters into it to distinguish it, to make it a crime, as that of violence upon the person; and it is a probable and natural and reasonable consequence of an attempt to commit that crime that a human life will be destroyed"
(Ibid, p.862).
11* * * all who agree to enter upon that robbery, and who are present at the place where it is being committed,
* * * while the parties are in the act of committing it, they are aiding, and assisting and counseling and abett-’ ing in its commission) and are responsible for the crime growing out of that robbery which may'resuit in the taking of human life"(lbid, pp.865-866).
1453
-13
"It is not necessary to sh6w it (the'undertaking) was .entered into by so many formal words. It may be tacitly entered into. If a man, with the understand-■ ing that another purposes to rob a.third, joins him, goes to the place where the attempted robbery is made, and is there for the purpose of aiding him, he agrees to it just as much as though he had entered into an obligation in writing to assist him. It is an agreement in4the law. That is the way you are to find it, by the relation that apparently the parties bear to each other, by their being there at the place, by their participating in the common enterprise, by their attempt to participate in the common enterprise. All these things are to be taken into consideration by you for j that purpose". (Ibid pp.868-869).
Leatherberry twice told' accused 'that he was going to rob the taxi driver. Although accused testified that he thought Leatherberry was "kidding" he admitted that when outside the car he heard a "bumping and banging inside ithe cab * * * a gurgle and a strangling noise." He also heard "beating noises". He did not return even when he finished urinating but instead deliberately "slowed around" behind the car, about four feet away, and returned only when the struggle was almost at an end. He made no effort to prevent Leatherberry from accomplishing his announced purpose. Deceased's blue jacket was later found in the car inside his bloodstained mackintosh. Although accused insisted that he did not notice any. kind of a coat or blue jacket that night, blue fibres similar to the fibres in the blue jacket were found in scrapings from his finger nails. He assisted in' the disposal of the body. He acconpanied Leatherberry to Kaldon where.inquiries were made about trains to London. _He did not sleep in his quarters that night but went with Leatherberry to the guardhouse of another company when the latter said "this is no place for us". Until he made the statement to Graham he maintained a complete silence concerning the affair even after he learned Hailstone was dead. In view of the foregoing authorities, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the evidence, considered as a whole, fully supports the conclusion that accused added and abetted Leatherberry. in the commission of a felony, namely robbery, and that the evidence is, therefore, legally sufficient to support<the findings of guilty of the murder which resulted (Charge I and Specification).
The findings of guilty of- murder are sustained by virtue of the foregoing principles notwithstanding the fact that the 'court found accused not guilty of the offense of robbery (Specification 1, Charge II).
"While this question has not heretofore been authoritatively decided in military justice administration, in the Federal criminal procedure the better rule on principle ' and authority is'that inconsistent verdicts of guilty and not guilty in the same criminal proceeding do not vitiate the former" CM 197115 (1931) (Dig.Ops.JAG, 1912-	•
1940, sec.395 (44), p.230).
- 14
(351)
7.	Whether accused took Weber's coat without authority or whether Weber actually loaned him the coat was a question of fact for the sole determination of the court. In view of the substantial competent evidence establishing accused's guilt of larceny of the coat, watch and torch, the Board of Review will:.not disturb the findings of the court. It is doubtful if a'value of over $20 was satisfactorily established by the evidence (CM 228742, Blanco).. However, as accused was properly found guilty of the . ©ore serious offense of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment, a consideration of the question of value of the articles alleged in Specification 2, Charge II becomes unimportant.
8,	In response to a question by the law member as to whether he had ever been in jail before, accused replied in the affirmative. Upon further interrogation by the law member as to the cause of his imprisonment and the length of his sentence, he testified that he was sentenced to a year for non support and that he served 11 months (R71). As evidence as to good character had not been introduced by the defense such interrogation by the law member was manifestly improper (MCM, 1928, par.112b, p.112). However, in view of the serious nature of the offenses alleged, the evidence establishing accused's guilt thereof and the sentence, it is apparent that this error did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused. Certain minor irregularities contained in the record of trial are discussed in the review of the Staff Judge Advocate and further consideration thereof is deemed unnecessary.
9.	The charge sheet shows that accused was 22 years, 10 months of age, and that he enlisted 2 January 1942 at Peoria, Illinois, for the duration of the war plus six,months. He had no prior service.
10.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. The punishment for murder is death or life imprisonment as the court-martial may direct (AW 92). Confinement in the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, is authorized (AW 42j 18 U.S.C. 454, 567).
- 15 -
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJaG, with ETOUSA. 2 6 APR 1944 TOf ■ Cocmanding Officer, Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 517, U. S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private GEORGE E. FOVJIER (16052055), Company '*En, 356th Engineer General Service Regiment, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence. .
2.	VJhen copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement- -The number of the record in this office is ETO 1453. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order. .(ETO .1453).
. Qi McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
#(353)
