#(299)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
ETO 339.
UNITED STATES	)
)
v.	)
)
2nd Lt.	LEE W. GAGE (0-1283752)	)
Company	C, 115th Infantry.	)
)
)
)
)
31 MAR 1943
29TH INFANTRY DIVISION
Trial by G.C.IvI., convened at APO 29 U.S. Army, 10 I,larch 1943. Sentence To be dismissed the service; to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hai-d' labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for
*—<	*/	7
five years.
HOLDING of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above, having been referred by the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, the confirming authority, prior to his action thereon, and pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 46, to the Judge Advocate General in charge of the branch of The Judge Advocate General’s Office for the European Theater of Operations, who, under the provisions of the last paragraph of Article of War 50^-, has, with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, and, to the end that the accused should have an independent review of the record of his trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in keeping with the spirit of Article of War 50i>-, having been referred by the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations to the Board of Review for examination and review, has been examined by the Board of Review, which submits this, its opinion and holding thereon, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
339
.337*25,	.
- 1 ~
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
Specification:	In	that	2nd	Lt, Lee W. Gage,
Company ."C", 115th Infantry, did on train between Reading and Basingstoke, England, on or about 5 March 194-3, commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature, having carnal connection by mouth, with 1st Sergeant William Cox.
CHARGE II:	Violation of the 95th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	2nd	Lt. ‘Lee W. Gage,-
Company "C", 115th Infantry was at Basingstoke,
England, on or about 5 March 194-3, in a public place, to wit,the railroad station at Basingstoke,
England, disorderly while in uniform.	>
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of both Charges and Specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
He was sentenced to be dismissed the service, to forfeit all pay and. allowances due or to become due and to confinement at hard labor at such place as the revie'wing authority may direct, for five years.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 4$.
PROSECUTIONS EVIDENCE
3.	- The testimony of 1st Sergeant William Cox. Company "C11.
115th Infantry, summarizes as follows:
The accused was, at the time of the commission of the offenses charged, a 2nd Lieutenant of Infantry and was on duty at Tidworth Barracks,.England, serving with Company "Cn, 115th Infantry, On 5th March 194-3, accused together, with several enlisted men of his organization were in Oxford on pass. They had spent the previous night at the American Red Cross Club. The accused and First Sergeant William Cox had breakfast together at the same club at 9*30 “ 9*4-5 a.m., 5 March 194-3 (R.7). After breakfast they went to a hairdresser and had a shave and then went into a store where accused purchased some phonograph records. At about 11:30 a.m., they went into “Whites'’, a public house, where they were joined by other members of their Company and all had something to drink. Accused left the ’•pub" at 1:55 p.m., and Sergt. Cox met him a short time later when they went to a restaurant for lunch. Later they met two girls on a street corner by arrangements previously made (R.8). Accused, Cox,
Sergeant Horner, Corporal Morris, Corporal Schonfield and others, making a party of 10 or 11 men from Company "C", 115th Infantry, left Oxford at 5*4-5 p.m., by train. As they were changing trains at Reading, accused fell attempting to board the connecting train and was left behind. Cox, Horner and Morris, left the train at West Reading and returned to the station and found accused sitting on a bench (R.9).
339
- 2 -
rnvr:
L’Ji'f •
:NTlAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(301)
The three enlisted men then went to a nearby tea-room, where they had tea and sandwiches while accused waited outside. Accused was bemoaning the fact that in his fall he had broken the records he was carrying. Accused, Cox, Horner and Morris boarded the next train which left Reading at 8:37 p.m,, and accused together with the three enlisted men named occupied a compartment in a railway car by themselves. It was one of the usual enclosed English compartments with the two seats facing each other. A door opened from the compartment on to an aisle* Horner and Morris sat on one seat while accused and Cox sat opposite them (R.10). Horner and Morris went to sleep. Accused said:	"I	am	going	to	sleep"	and	laid	his
head on the lap of Cox, who leaned back and rested his head on the cushion on the back of the seat (R.10, 13). There was enough room on the seat to allow accused to recline in another position than the one he assumed (R.17). A short time later, according to Cox, accused said, "Sergeant, are you asleep?" To which Cox answered "hmm". A short time later accused asked the same question, which Cox answered in the same manner (R.10). Cox then testified as follows:
"*** a short while after that I felt his hand on my leg, he started rubbing my privates, I had a good idea of what was coming. I had a good idea of what was to happen, so I put my foot on the seat where Sergeant Horner and Corporal Morris was, I wanted them to see what was going on. After a while he unbuttoned the fly of my pants and took my penus out and I kicked Sergeant Horner in the head to wake him up, by the time I awakened him he had it in his mouth. As soon as Sergeant Horner was awake I knocked Lieutenant Gage aside and pushed him to the floor.
Q. What was the state of your emotions?
A. Sir, when that happened I was pretty mad.
Q, Tell the court why you wanted to get Sergeant Horner's attention?
A. I had sense enough in my own mind to know that in the army that it is an officer's word against an enlisted man's and that an officer's word goes further, I had to have some witness or proof to show what was . going on, if Sergeant Horner or no one else had been in there I would done the same thing, I had them there and I got him awake.
Q. How did you awaken him?
A, I kicked him.
Q. You threw Lieutenant Gage to the floor?
A. Yes.
Q. What did he do?
339
~ 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(302)
CONFIDENTIAL
A. He just laid there.
Q, Did he say anything?
A. He never said a word, when the train stopped I said come on Lieutenant, get up, you are coming •	with	me and he said 'I am drunk'. I saw
two Pfc's and I said you better get an IIP or something and I dragged him out on the platform and he laid there, just after this the Lieutenant started to walk off and I grabbed him by the arm, we had quite a tussle and he swung at me and I hit him back and knocked him down and I sat on him and kept him there until the Sergeant fron; RTO came." (R.10, ll).
In the disturbance on the station platform accused struck at Cox first. Upon the arrival'of the RTO,Sergeant Cox, in the presence of accused, reported the occurrence on the railway train, but accused remained silent (R.12). The RTO Sergeant escorted accused, Cox, Horner and Morris to the officej where Cox repeated his story in the presence of accused. The Military Police were called (R.12). In walking from the station platform to the RTO office it was necessary for the party to descend a stairway, pass under the tracks and ascend other stairs. Accused appeared to walk "all right". In the RTO office accused walked around the room, mumbling to himself. Upon being directed to sit down by both the RTO sergeant and Cox he laid down on a bench and remained silent (R.12).
The accused was not drunk when he boarded the train at Reading. Accused and Cox consumed intoxicating liquor in Oxford and also on the train from Oxford to Reading (R.15). After boarding the train at Reading each of the party including accused had at least three drinks of liquor. Accused had been with Company C, 115th Infantry for about 6 months (R.17). . Cox had suspected accused of moral weakness, arid for this reason Cox did not stop the obvious intent of accused to commit the offense of sodomy (R.16).	.	'
r
r Upon cross-examination by a member of the Court Cox testified affirmatively that accused put witness's penis in his mouth (R.17).
The testimony of Staff Sergeant Eldridge M. Horner. Company C. 115th Infantry was in substance as follows:
. Witness first met accused and Cox on the platform at Reading on late afternoon of 5 March 19-4-3. The three of them, together with Morris entered a compartment on a railway train at Reading (R.20). Accused had been drinking (R.23). Accused and Cox had a bottle (R.2-4). Accused and Cox 8At in one seat And witness and Morris in opposite seat facing the first named. Accused laid his head on Cox's leg and
- K -
NFIDENTIM.
339
CONFIDENTIAL
(303)
asked that the light be extinguished (R.20). There was a light in the celling of the compartment, "It wasn't very bright but light enough to see in the compartment" (R.2A). "It was a dim light but I could read by it" (R.25). Witness laid down on his seat on his left side with his back to accused and Cox and fell asleep (R,20),
He was awakened by Cox hitting him on back of his head, Cox was pointing down to his lap (R.20). Witness saw accused with Cox's penis in his mouth (R.21,23,26). Cox then pushed accused to floor. Accused was not drunk, but "he might have been feeling good," The train was nearing Basingstoke. Accused stood up and Cox pulled him from train when it stopped. Accused said "what is going on here?" and started to walk away, Cox grabbed him and accused swung at Cox (R.21). Cox hit accused, knocked him down and sat"on him. Accused received a black eye as a result of the blow administered by Cox,
Cox asked "two of the boys" to get an M.P. An RTO sergeant came up; took the party into custody and escorted the accused and the three soldiers to the RTO office. The party had to walk down steps, under the tracks and up steps to get there. Accused was not drunk and walked by himself. Upon reaching the’ office accused laid down on a bench. There was no conversation (R.22).	-	.	_	i
T/3 Wesley Wangstad. Transportation Corps. RTO. Basingstoke testified in relevant part as follows;
•
■ At about 9*30 p.m., 5 March 194-3 on the central platform of the railway station’at Basingstoke, witness found Cox sitting on accused's chest and holding him to the floor. He thought Cox was intoxicated and pulled him off of accused. Cox was not intoxicated, but infuriated. Accused got up off the floor and said:	"I am drunk,
where the hell am I? I got to get a train" or words to that effect, and started to walk off (R.28). He did not stagger, but walked straight. Witness was holding. Cox. but when released, Cox followed accused and struck at him (R.28, 30). Accused ducked and witness parted the men (R.28, 30), Cox then said to witness:	"Sergeant,
I put this officer under arrest." Witness took the party composed of accused, Cox, Horner and Morris to RTO office (R.28). Accused was not sloppy drunk. He knew he had lost his watch (R.28, 32), . .
He walked by himself to the office and upon arriving there laid down on a ben,ch (R.29). Cox stood over .accused calling him a sodoraist. Cox had been drinking but was not drunk. He was infuriated. Accused made no response to the epithets (R.29, 32). The company commander arrived about A a.m., on 6 March 1943 (R.29). .
1st Lieutenant Frank B. Bowen testified he had been commanding Co. C., 115th Infantry since 5 November 1942. Accused,
Cox and Horner belonged to his company. About 12:30 a.m., 6 March 1943 witness, then at Tidworth Barracks, talked to Cox on the telephone. Cox was in Basingstoke. ‘Witness drove in a weapon-carrier to Basingstoke arriving at RTO office about A a.m., (R.35, 36). Accused was asleep on a bench. Cox, Horner, and Morris were also asleep. After listening to the stories of Cox and Horner,
237885
- 5 - CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(304)
awakened accused and Morris and took the entire party to Tidworth, Accused got up and walked in a manner that was all right and had no difficulty. Cox showed no evidence of drink and was in possession of his faculties* Yihen. awakened, accused said to witness:	"What
are you doing here and what happened" or words to that effect.
There was no conversation on the way back to the post (R,36). It was not because of accused's condition that witness did not question him, but because he felt that whatever.accused would have to say would make no difference and that he might possibly deny the offence (R.37).
DEFENSE'S EVIDENCE.	-	''
. 4» After his rights were explained to him the accused appeared as a witness in his own behalf. His version of e vents is as follows:
Accused and Cox were guests at the Red Cross Service Club at Oxford, England, on the night of 4-5 March 1943, arising at 9:30 a.m., on the last mentioned date. They v;ent to a hairdressers and then visited two shops and witness purchased phonograph records and needles. Upon the opening of the public houses, accused and Cox v/ent to Whites where they ordered two scotch whiskeys (R.39).
Private Wood suggested the purchase of a quart of whiskey.	Accused
and Cox each contributed a pound towards purchase of same.	Accused
remained in the public house until 2' p.m., consuming at least 10 drinks with enlisted men (R.40, 46)., Cox and accused had dates with two „ girls and accused went to a corner and waited for them until about 2:05 p.m.", previously informing Cox of his intention. He returned to Whites and learned that Cox and Wood had departed taking with them accused's coat and phonograph records. Accused joined the two soldiers at another place (which he describes as being up-stairs) (R.40).
Leaving that place accused met a.young woman who informed him /that the two previous mentioned girls were looking for him. (R.41). Soon thereafter another girl, "known by accused" came up the street and asked him to accompany her to meet her mother (R.41> 46). After visiting with her about 10 minutes he went to the Service Club, secured his gas mask and toilet articles and went to the pailway station (R.41). He arrived at the station at 5:15 p.m., and boarded a train which departed at 5:50 p.m. In the company, composed of about 10 enlisted ipen and accused, were Wood and Cox. The train was crowded and accused, Wood and Cox stood in the aisle of a railway car near the latrine. , Accused and Cox had a fifth of whiskey between them (R.46). Three times accused and the two.soldiers went into.the latrine to drink whiskey. Finally, they stood in the aisle and had three or four drinks each. Accused had a total of six or seven straight drinks (R.47). It was very warm and accused was made "almost sick" (R.41, 46). He did not remember getting off of the train, but did recall trying to board the train at Reading for Basingstoke (R.41). - He fell and broke the records. He remembered sitting somewhere and that "they" came back to him. Accused declared he had no memory of .
339
£37325 - 6 - CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(305)
boarding the train the second time or entering the compartment nor did he remember being hit on the head. He did recall being hit on the ear' and asking "What happened." • He did not discover his blackened eye until awakening in the RTO office in Basingstoke. According to accused he nearly fell out of the truck in riding from .Basingstoke to Tidworth (R.42).' Previously, at a dance he had lost all consciousness (R.42, A3) after drinking. accused will be 28 years old in May 1943. He volunteered for military service in the regular army and was graduated from O.C.S. on 15 May 1942 (R.44). Accused had never been involved in abnormal sex practices of the nature with which he was charged and had never thought of them. He had no memory of events from the time he boarded the train until, he received the lick on the head, which brought him back to consciousness. He did not know how the incident occurred (R.45). The witnesses, who were enlisted men, bore no ill will towards accused as far as he knew. His commanding officer, Lieutenant Bowen, had criticised him and other officers for spending too much time with' the enlisted men (R.48).
5.	Three fellow officers appeared as character witnesses for accused testifying he was a "perfect gentleman" and "normal in his habits" (R.50); "as a gentleman **-*# nothing but good" could be said about him; "as an officer he was a good officer"; "as a boom-mate *** he is a good friend" (K. 51); as an officer, room-mate and gentleman, "one of the best,'there was nothing to indicate ’otherwise"
(R.53).
- Pfc. McLane, Co.C, 115th Infantry, appeared as a defense witness. The Court allowed him to testify of an incident whereby he received permission from accused to remain in quarters while’he was ill, and Cox, as 1st Sergeant, informed him:	"I am the man to
tell you when you are to stay in or not." (R.54).
PROSECUTION1S REBUTTAL *
6,	On rebuttal the.prosecution produced, the following witnesses, who*testified as stated:
Corporal Alton IT. Morris. Co.C.. 115th Infantry:	He was
in the railway car compartment on the trip from Reading with accused, Cox and Horner. Witness and Horner sat in one seat and accused and Cox were in the other. With respect to accused's condition of sobriety, "he looked alright to me, I wouldn't swear he was drinking or not",	Witness was on platform at Reading when there was a
"rumpus"; he went for an RTO and when they arrived accused was on his feet and appeared "alright". He went to the RTO office under his own power (R.55)* No one lead or carried him (R.56). Witness saw Cox holding accused on the ground (R.55).•	Witness found
accused's watch on the station platform and upon arrival at RTO office accused asked about it and witness informed him that he had it.
There was a woman om the station platform when accused was on th
*339
2A78ZS
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(306)
CONFIDENTIAL
ground.' Witness was in the group that returned to the Reading station after accused missed train. .Accused talked freely, consciously and coherently about the. broken records, his failure to board the train and "what a nice bundh of guys we were for coming back." (R.57). The train was moving when accused attempted to board it. Witness met accused at Oxford station for the first time (R.58).	,	.
Pfc. William Bromwell. Co.C.. 115th Infantry was on the train from Reading to Basingstoke on evening of 5 March 1943 and occupied a compartment other than that occupied by accused. Upon reaching Basingstoke, Cox asked witness to get an M.P. He-secured the RTO Sergeant and returned to station platform. Accused walked "alright" to RTO office (R.59). He did not. see. Cox .strike or hit accused but saw accused strike at Cox (R.59, 60). Witness had seen drunken men, and knows they stagger and do not talk clearly. The accused at the RTO office "knew what" he was dping" (R.60),
Pfc. Albert L. Lewis. Co.C.. 115th Infantry was in the railway car compartment next to that occupied by accused on the trip from Reading to Basingstoke on evening of 5 March 1943* Bromwell was with him. On the station platform witness saw accused strike Cox (R,6l, 62) who yelled to get an M.P, Witness ran to get one and when he returned accused was lying on the platform and Cox was sitting on him (R.61, 63). When the party went to the RTO office accused vme walking like a sober man (R.62). On examination by the court, witness could not "say for sure" whether accused actually hit Cox (R.63).
7.	The crime of sodomy, as denounced by the 93rd Article of War, includes carnal knowledge per os (MCM, par.149k, p,177j Glover v. States, 101NE 629, 45 LRA (NST473; CM 187221, Summers!!;
CM 192609, Hulme:	CM	209651, Palmer and Morrell;. To establish the
offense, actual penetration of the penis of one of the parties into the mouth of the other must be proved (MCM, par.149k, p.177, 58 C.J. par.5,‘p.790), and both parties may be liable as principals, where both consented to the act (MCM par,149k, p.177; 58 C.J., par.7, p.790). Conviction of one of the parties may be had upon the testimony of the other party, alone, if believed by the court. (Caminetti v. United States, 242 U.S., 470, 495 , 61 L. Ed., 442,
457; CM 192609> Hulme).
*
With respect to the offense alleged in Charge I and its Specification, viz: sodomy -per os’, the prosecution abundantly sustained the burden of proving that accused committed the crime.
The testimony of Cox regarding the actual penetration is corroborated by Horner. Both testified that the unnatural, carnal connection . was consummated. It was a particular function of the Court to weigh
tzms
- 8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
339

FI DENT IAL
(307)
tlie evidence and to determine its truth or falsity. Cox and Horner appeared before the Court and it had opportunity to judge of their good faith and the absence of pre-arrangement or conspiracy on their part to involve the accused officer in a heinous, revolting offense. By its finding of guilty the Court accepted.the.testimony of Cox and Horner and concluded they were worthy of belief.
In this type of case, requiring confirmation under AW .48, the Board of Review may weigh the evidence, judge of the credibility of witnesses and reach their own conclusions on controverted questions of fact (CM 153479 (1922), Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.407(5), p.258j CM 203511, Wedmore). For this reason the testimony of witnesses has been set forth herein above in detail.
The Board of Review has carefully analysed and weighed the evidence and can- discover no reason to differ from the conclusion of the Court.
However, there is a question which deserves consideration. It is manifest that the defense was seeking by proof of accused's extreme intoxication to exculpate accused from punishment or at least to mitigate the enormity of his offense. Accused denied all memory of the events in the railway carriage and attempted to ascribe his loss of memory to his liberal indulgence in intoxicants. Defense counsel presumably had some idea that evidence of extreme intoxication of accused might be useful to him as a defense but it is evident from the record that he did not appreciate the technique in the use of such evidence.
(l) - Evidence of intoxication of an accused to the degree that he is rendered physically helpless and wholly incapable of committing the criminal acts is .most relevant and competent evidence. It goes directly to the issue of fact as to whether accused actually committed the crime alleged. It is probative evidence, intended to establish the ultimate fact that accused did not commit the act or acts charged. A man may be in such drunken state that he is rendered wholly incapacitated to perform the acts constituting the offense. Such evidence traverses the prosecution's proof of the factugi of thh crime and creates an issue of fact which the Court must resolve. If it finds accused was intoxicated to such degree that he was in a stupor or physically disabled from performing the criminal acts it will thereby find that he did not commit the crime and acquit him. Iii the instant case, it is obvious that the defense's evidence did not even approach the threshold of such defense. Proof that accused was in such intoxicated state that upon recovering sobriety he had no memory of his conduct during his inebriety is certainly not proof that his intoxication was of that severity as to disable him from committing the crime. Therefore, this use of
9-
COI'FIDENTIM.
339
\JV Ml .wi.il I »< *-•
the evidence of accused’s intoxication must be dismissed.
(2) - Ordinarily evidence of intoxication as a defense is
relevant and material in those cases where proof of specific intent
is a necessary element of the crime'. As examples: in a charge of
larceny there must be proof of specific intent of accused to deprive
the owner of his property permanently. In a charge of burglary
the prosecution must establish the specific intent of accused to
commit a felony when he broke and entered the dwelling house. If an
accused is intoxicated to the degree that he was incapable of forming
a specific intent (a question of fact for the Court) then the
prosecution fails in proof of a vital element of its case. However,
sodoiliy is ah offense which does not require proof of specific intent
(People v. Hall, 16 N.Y., Sup. (2nd) 328, 172 Miscel. 930; People v.
Brown, 77 Pac.(2nd) (Cal.) 880). The voluntary intoxication of \
accused cannot therefore be considered as defensive evidence.
* •
"It is a well settled general rule of the .. common law, and also generally followed under the statute, that voluntary drunkenness of an accused at the time a crime was committed is no.defense; and that despite his voluntary drunkenness . at the time one may, subject to qualifies-, tions hereinafter pointed out, be guilty ofaiycrime, such as assault, burglary, illegal possession of intoxicating liquor,larceny, rape, or assault with intent to tape. If a person voluntary drinks and becomes Intoxicated,' and while in that condition commits an act which would be a crime if he were sober, he is fully responsible, whatever may be the degree of his intoxication or the condition of his mind,' : *x*K*xtt>ix»****tt The effect of drunkenness on the mind and on men’s actions when under . the full influence of liquor are facts known to everyone, and it is as much the duty of men to abstain from placing themselves in a condition from which such danger to others is to be apprehended as it is to abstain from firing into a crowd or doing any other act likely to be attended with dangerous or fatal consequences. It can make no difference, where no specific intent is necessary, that the intoxication was so extreme that accused was unconscious of what he was doing and had no capacity to distinguish between right and wrong, and,
339
mm -10./
CONFIDENTIAL
(309)
CONFIDENTIAL
although there may be. no actual criminal intent, the law will, by construction, supply the same, except in cases where a specific intent is requisite. Accused may be entirely unconscious of what he does and yet be responsible; he may be incapable of express malice, but the law may imply malice from the absence of provocation and from other . circumstances under which the act is done,1'
(22 C.J.S., sec.66, p.130-131; 16 C.J., sec,81, p.10A-5-6).
(3) - When the evidence of accused's intoxication is subjected to analysis, it is wholly unconvincing that accused was inebriated even to the degree that he described, to-wit,'that he could remember no incidents in the railway carriage* His , exclamations to Cox after being removed from the train, "I am drunk" . (R.ll); "Y/hat is going on here" (R.21); "I am drunk where the hell am I, I got to get a train" (R.27) create the impression that they were self-serving statements prompted by accused's knowledge that he was facing a serious charge. The evidence of his condition prior to and at the time of his boarding the train at Reading, while shoving some degree of intoxication, is not convincing that he was drunk to the degree that he was in a stupoi* or mentally incapacitated. After his tussle with Cox he was able to walk to the RTO. office at Basingstoke without assistance. He knew that his watch had been lost. Considering the evidence of intoxication in the light most favorable to accused, the Board of Review, concludes that it affords no basis either as a defense or in mitigation.
In the opinion of the Board of Review the record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of Charge I and its Specification.
8.	Article of T7ar 95 provides:
"Any officer or cadet who is convicted of conduct unbecoming an officer qnd a gentleman shall be dismissed from the service."
"The conduct contemplated is action or behavior in an official capacity which, in dishonoring or disgracing the individual as an officer, seriously compromises his character and standing as a gentleman, or action or behavior in an unofficial or private capacity which, in dishonoring or disgracing the individual personally as a gentleman, seriously compromises his position as an officer and exhibits him as morally unworthy to remain a member of the honorable profession of arms." (Yfintlirop).
237825
339
CONFIDENTIAL
"There are certain moral attributes common to the ideal officer and the perfect gentleman, a lack of which is indicated by acts of dishonesty or unfair dealing, of indecency or indecorum, or of lawlessness, injustice, or cruelty. Not every one is or can be expected to meet ideal standards or to possess the attributes in the exact degree demanded by ..the standard of his own time; but there is a limit of tolerance below which the individual ' standards in these respects of an officer or . cadet can not fall without his being morally. unfit to be an officer or cadet or to be considered a gentleman. This article contemplates such conduct by an officer or cadet which, taking all the circumstances into consideration, satisfactorily shows such moral unfitness."
"This article includes acts made punishable by any other Article of War, provided such acts amount to conduct unbecoming an officer and ■ a gentleman;****1! (M.C.M., 1928, sec.151,
p.186).
The Specification of Charge II alleges that accused was "disorderly while in uniform in a public place, to-wit, the railroad station at Basingstoke, England". It charges an offense under the 95th Article of 'War (M.C.M., 1928, Appendix 2, p.253). It is to be noted, however, that accused is not charged with being drunk or "drunk and disorderly11 but simply "disorderly". If the events on the station platform be the sole basis of determining accused's guilt there is much that may be said in favor of the proposition that accused was not guilty of conspicuous disorderly conduct,
(CM 196426 (1931), Dig. Ops, JAG., 1912-1940, par.453(11), p.343), but was simply endeavouring to free himself from an unprovoked assault by Cox. However, such view of the evidence-distorts the actualities of the case, and affords no explanation of either accused or Cox's conduct. There can be no doubt but what evidence of the events occurring on the railway train immediately preceding its arrival at Basingstoke, although involving a distinct and separate offense, is relevant, competent and admissible on the issue under Charge II and its Specification. (6 C.J.S., sec.ll6c, p.978, 979;
16 C.J., sec.1139, p.590; 1 Wharton's Criminal Evidence,, sec.255, p.31 Such evidence serves to explain the motives and reasons for Cox detaining accused and.for accused's effort to prevent such detention, which in turn produced the disorderly conduct with which accused is charged. The explanation of events on the station platform is discovered in the occurrences in the railway carriage. The events
339
237385	-i2-
CCNFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(311)
of the two locus are in truth one continuous transaction. Accused had aroused Cox's animosity and contempt by his act of perversion.
Cox resolved to bring him to account and to that end dragged him from the carriage on to a public railway platform. When accused attempted to depart he was knocked down by Cox who sat upon him to hold him in restraint until arrival of military police. ■ Viewed in this light there is substantial evidence in the record to sustain the finding that accused was guilty of disorderly conduct.
There is no specific testimony that accused was in uniform on the occasion of the platform disorder. The testimony of T/3 Wangstad, the RTO officer at Basingstoke, distinguishes between the acts of "Lieutenant" Gage and "Sergeant" Cox and the "other soldiers" (R.27, 28, 29) and he identified the accused in the court room (R.27). Furthermore, the accused on cross-examination stated he carried a gas-mask and a "short coat" (R.4A) and admitted he was the only officer in Whites public house drinking with soldiers. The accused was an officer on duty with American troops in England (R.27) where the wearing of the service uniform is mandatory while absent on pass along civilians (ETO, GO 28, lc(3), 8-18-42). From this evidence _it may be inferred that accused was in uniform at the time of his melee with Cox on the station platform (CIA 121825 (1918); CM 12198/+ (1918); CLI 122254. (1918), reported in Dig. Ops, JAG., 1912-194-0, par.4.53(H), p.342,3A3).
In the opinion of the Board of Review the record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of Charge II and its Specification.
9. The accused is 28 years old. He enlisted 21 Ray 1941 in the regular army. He was graduated from O.C.S. on 15 Ray 1942 and was on that date commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant, AUS. He was assigned to the 115th Infantry on 22 Sept 1942.
10. The court was legally constituted. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. For the reasons hereinbefore stated the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty of Charge I and its Specification and Charge II and its Specification and the sentence. Dismissal is authorized upon a conviction of a violation of the 93rd Article of War and is mandatory upon a conviction of a violation of the 95th
Article of War.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
(ABSENT ON LEAVE)
£37845
Judge Advocate
339
- 13 - CONFIDENTIAL
(312)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind. V/D, ETO Branch - JAGO.
31 MAR IS43
TO:	Commanding	General,	European	Theater	of	Operations,	APO	887,
U.S. Army.
1.	Herewith transmitted the record of trial, together with the opinion of the Board of Review in the case of 2nd Lt. Lee W. Gage (0-1283752), Company C, 115th Infantry (AUS).
2.	Upon trial this officer was found guilty of sodomy in violation of Article of War 93, and of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman in violation of Article of Y/ar 95. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor for five years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 48.
3.	Prior to your action thereon, you referred the record to me under the provisions of Article of ’War 4-6, and, in order to expedite final action in the case, and more especially to insure to the accused the independent and impartial examination of the record of trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in keeping with the spirit of Articles of War 48 and 50^', under the provisions of the latter article and, before examination by me, I referred the record to the Board of Review■for its examination and opinion. Normally, pursuant to instructions of The Judge Advocate. General, action by the confirming authority (other than the President) is required, tinder the provisions of the third paragraph of Article of Y7ar 58y, before the record is referred to the Board of Review and myself for review as to its legal sufficiency. However, your reference of the record to me, prior to your action thereon, under the provisions of Article of War 4&, which expressly authorizes
such reference, since I, as an Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the branch of the office of The Judge Advocate General for this Theater, have, under the provisions of ■the last paragraph of Article t>f 7/ar 50-g, 'with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, changes the normal situation indicated above. Under such circumstances, should I pass on the record under Article of Y/ar 4-6, in lieu of and as your staff judge advocate, and return the record for your action prior to its examination by the Board of Iteview, it would-then be necessary, after your action, for the Board of Review and myself, in my capacity in charge of this branch office, to examine the record to determine its legal sufficiency. Such a procedure would deny the accused the independent review of the record by the Board of Review, provided by .article of War 50gf since the report of my examination and my recommendation under Article of Aar 46 would be a part of the file of
237325
nruinnrkiTiAl
339
CONFIDENTIAL
(313)
the case when it reached the Board of Review. It would also place me in the anomalous position of acting as staff judge advocate under Article of War 46 before the review of the Board of Review and as Judge Advocate General for this theater after such review under Articles of War 48 and 50^-. In my opinion, to follow such a procedure would deny the accused a substantial right given him by Articles of War 48 and 5O2. On the other' hand, following the procedure I have adopted denies the accused nothing, but fully protects his rights. I am convinced this is the procedure The Judge Advocate General would follow on a reference to him, under Article of War 46, for the reason that, in such event, he would o'ccupy the dual role of Staff judge advocate and The Judge Advocate General, as he does when the President is the confirming authority and would follow the procedure prescribed for the latter clas3 of cases. In my opinion the full protection of the rights of the accused vouchsafed to him under the Articles of War requires this procedure.
4.	The Board of Review summarizes the evidence in the accompanying opinion and holds that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence and to warrant confirmation of the sentence. I have carefully examined the record and concur in the'opinion and holding.
5.	a. The proof as to the Specification of Charge I unquestionably shows the commission of the detestable crime of sodomy, committed by a commissioned officer upon an enlisted man, in the presence of two other enlisted men, Ko denial of the acts alleged is made by accused, his only comment thereon being that he did not remember, a defense which the court apparently did not believe and which does not square with the conduct and actions of accused before, during and after the commission of the offense.
Guilt of the Specification having been established, guilt of the Charge follows as a matter of course.
b. As to Charge II, the acts charged in the Specification constitute, under the circumstances, conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman. In a condition whether feigned or real, which necessitated that he be dragged from the train by an enlisted man, then lying' on the platform of a public railway station, wrestling in a public place with, and having to be overcome and held down by an enlisted man, presents a picture of misconduct amply sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of the offense charged.
6.	Dismissal and confinement at hard labor for five years
is none too severe a sentence for such detestable and ungentlemanly conduct. I accordingly recommend that the sentence be confirmed
- 2 ~
CONFIDENTIAL
? 3732 5
339
CONFIDENTIAL
<3 U)	'
and ordered executed. Inclosed herewith is a form of action confirming the sentence and directing that it be carried into execution.
Brigadier General, _/ 'Judge Advocate General,
European Theater of Operations.
«
2 Incl; •
Form of action.
, Opinion Board of Review.
(Sentence confirmed end ordered executed. GCUO 5, ETO, 6 Apr 1943)
;1»
237825 '
. - - 3 - CONFIDENTIAL '
339
#(315)
