#(59)
Branch Office of 'The judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
AFO-671
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1177
UNITED STATES )
)
* T. *	)
■ * ) ’ Private CLAUDS M. COMBESS ,	)	1
(7080335), Pattery »C«, 70th )
Ileld Artillery Battalion. • )
)
)
)
6 MAR 1944
ICELAND BASE CO MAID.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Camp Curtis, Iceland 16 December 1943* Sentence 1 Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for one year. Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Deek-man Ne* York, " '
___OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW
RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, JUdge Advocates
1,	. The record of trial'in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The JUdge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to ■ • support the findings and sentence in part. The record has now been exam-
- ined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Fudge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office. ’
,	i	A	..	>	-	i
2.	.Accused was tried upon the following Charge and-specifications!
- CHARGEi Violation of the	Article	of	War.
-	Specification lx- In that Private Claude M.
Combess, Battery *C*, 70th Field Artillery * Battalion, did, at Broadway Cafe, Iceland, on or about 8 DecembeiJvnxrith intent to do , her bodily harm, commit an assault upon Anna Benonysdottir, by willfully and felo^- -niouely striking the said Anna Benonysdottir in the face with his hand.
' Specification 2x (Finding of not guilty).
Specification 3* (Finding of not guilty).
1
He pleaded not guilty and was found guilty of the Charge and of Specification 1, and not guilty of Specifications 2 and 3* Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction by special court-martial for absence without leave for three days in violation of Article of War 6l, disobedience of the order of a non-commissioned officer (apparently in violation of Article of War 65)i and breach of arrest in violation of Article of War 69. Ke was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to.be confined at hard labor for one year at such place as the reviewing authority may direct,- The reviewing authority approved the sentence' but suspended the execution of that portion thereof imposing dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement, designated the Eastern Branch, United Stated Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York as the palace of confinement, and directed that he be confined in the Iceland Base Command .Frison Stockade until further orders*	.	*
The proceedings were published in General Court-Martial Order :
No, 159» Headquarters Iceland Base Comnand, APO 860, c/o Postmaster, New York, New York 20 December 1943*	'
A -	i
3* Evidence for the prosecution pertaining to the offense of which -accused was found guilty (assault with intent to do bodily harm in violation of AW 93) waa substantially as follows:
Private Henry E. Scearce, Battery "C", 70th Field Artillery Battalion, testified that on the date alleged he, accused and two other soldiers secured four quarts of whiskey and went to the Broadway Cafe where the other two soldiers became drunk, Scearce and accused took them back to camp and returned to the cafe, Scearce did not know how much liquor accused had consumed up to that time, but there then remained one full bottle of liquor and another which was partially filled (r6,14), They ordered two soft drinks which the waitress brought to a table. She then took them away without offering any explanation, and told them to "get out* (R6.8-9). Accused threw two or three saucers at her feet but the saucers1 did not strike her. She "dashed* a bucket of water at Scearce and accused, who "let the water go by** Then thfe waitress moved toward them1 with the bucket in her hand. She seized accused's hat, threw it on the floor, and tried to seize Scearce'a cap, but he 'jumped back". He picked up accused's hat and gave it to him. It’ appeared to Scearce that the waitress then attempted to strikB accused with the bucket whereupon he saw accused slap her once. The two men then left the restaurant (R6-7,10)*
Anna Benonysdottir, Broadway Cafe, Iceland, identified accused and testified that two soldiers entered the restaurant, spoke to her "rather annoyingly", end ordered two soft drinks, When she brought the drinks and told them the price "their face just looked like they did not owe anything". Because they "kept standing there" - by the'Counter, she told them they should leave. As they did not go, her daughter who was 5 years of age told them twice that they should leave, whereupon "he" (accused) threw a glass and then two plates at the daughter, one of which struck her on the arm and then
- 2 -
(61)
broke on the floor. The witness became angry and threw a half pail of water at them which went over the. floor. She then approached the with the pail in her hand in order to chase accused from the counter, whereupon he seized the pail and struck her face with it# As it appeared that he intended to take the pail from the restaurant she -followed him for the purpose of taking it Hway from him. When he refused to deliver the pail to her, she knocked his hat from his head# He started to hit her again whereupon she called two Icelanders who were present, one of whom took the pail from accused and ordered him to go# The two soldiers appeared to be afraid and left the *cafe# She did not know whether or not accused was drunk (RI6-I9).	*	>	*
i
On 9 December accused, after being warned of his rights, swore to a statement which he had previously signed on that day, which statement was admitted in evidence (R29-31; Pros.Ex.A), He stated in substance that he, Scearce, and two other soldiers drank about two quarts of liquor at the Broadway Cafe, When the other two soldiers "got a little to much" he and Scearce took them back to camp and then returned to the restaurant. After they ordered the two soft drinks the waitress apparently thought that accused did -not pay for the drinks promptly enough, because she took them back# Accused tossed five or- six saucers ■playfully* at her feet, and some of them were broken. She went to the kitchen and shortly thereafter threw a pailful of scalding water at him through a window# The water missed him,
■She then came out of the kitchen with the bucket in her hand and started swinging at me with the bucket, I tried to stop her by grabbing the bucket,.
She tried to scratch me, and I got mad
and -slapped her twice with my left hand,
openhanded. **•*, Two Icelanders **•*
came over and grabbed ahold of me and
she opened the door and told us to get
out* (Pros^Ex.A),	.
4» After his rights were explained to him, accused elected to remain silent# The defense offered no evidence pertaining to Specification 1 of the Charge (R32-33).
* . » 1 *
5.	Accused was found guilty of assaulting the waitress with the intent to do her bodily harm by striking her in the face with his -hand as alleged in the Specification, He was not charged with striking her . with a pail, as she testified. The question presented for consideration.■ is whether the evidence is -legally sufficient to support the findings of accused's guilt of an assault (including a battery) with intent to do bodily harm# The offense is defined*
(62)
"This is an assault aggravated by the specific present intent to do bodily harm to the person assaulted by means of the force employed*
Proof.- (a) That the accused assaulted a certain person as alleged} and (b) the facts and circumstances of the case indicating the concurrent intent thereby to do bodily harm to such person* (Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par.l49°» p.180). (Underscoring supplied).
*A simple assault and battery is'usually accomplished by the primitive means ordinarily resorted to by individuals in inflicting punishment on one another, and the motive of the assailant is not ulterior to the mere punishment of the person assailed. An aggravated assault, or assault and battery, which is ordinarily made a felony by statute, is one where the means or instrument used to accomplish the injury are highly dangerous or where the assailant has some ulterior and malicious motive in comnitting the assault other than a mere desire to punish -the person injured. . •
*********
To convict a person of an aggravated* assault and battery, the act must have been committed by him with the specific malicious intention which gives character to the act and aggravates the assault. The intent in such cases is a question of fact for the jury, and * the malicious intention is to be inferred from the situation of ihe! parties,- their acts and declarations, the nature and extent of the violence, and'the object to be accomplished* (Criminal Law from American Jurisprudence, Assault and Battery, sec.26, p.142) (Underscoring supplied).
*********
■Under statutes of this character (punishing •
* -assault with intent to inflict great bodily harm) the intent to inflict an injury, of the kind described by the particular statute, is an essential element of the offense, and the absence of such intent 'cannot be supplied by the mere fact that the- injury is inflicted, although an ttfbrence of the intent may be
4	-
(63)
justified from the occasioning of the injury, or the character of the injury, or the implement employed, or the other circumstances attending the assault*
. (6 C.J.S., Assault and Battery, sec.796,
(2), PP.937-938).
After a wordy altercation about service or payment, the accused tossed saucers in the direction of the waitress. In retaliation she threw water from a pail at him, tossed his hat on the floor and advanced toward him with the pail, whereupon he grasped it and slapped her twice on the face with his open left hand. As he provoked her threats of violence against him and did not withdraw from the conflict, he may not rely upon the plea of self-defense (Criminal Law from American jurisprudence. Assault and Battery, sec.45»pP.149-15°J barton's Criminal Law, sec.826, pp.1114-1115 and sec.614, pp.828-831} 6 C.J.S., sec.9% (4)» P»947)« He did not , exhibit an unusual amount of violence towards her, nor did he have an unreasonable advantage over her. He caused her no injury. The evidence shows that accused and the waitress engaged in only a minor squabble. Its maximum thrust establishes only a mild battery upon the person of the woman (See Manual for Courts-Martial I928, par.149	pp.177-179)• There were
no circumstances attending the battery from which the necessary specific intent may be inferred. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the evidence is legally Sufficient to sustain a finding of guilty of only the lesser included offense of simple assault and battery in violation of Article of War 96*
6.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of age and that he enlisted at Fort Benning, Georgia 24 May 1940 to serve three years. He had no prior service.
7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses, No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were comnitted during the trial. For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the recordof trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 1 of the Charge aDd of the Charge as involve findings of guilty of assault and battery in violation of Article of War 96, and legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as provides for confinement at hard 3±»or for six months and forfeiture-of two-thirds of accused's pay per month for a like period.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)
_Judge Advocate
- 5 -
lst/ind.
7®, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. - g MAR 1944 TO» Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.
1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 50fc as amended by the Act of 20 August I937 (50 Stat. 724» 10 U.S.C., 1522) and aa further amended by the Act of 1 August 1942, (56 Stat. 732, 10 U.S.C., 1522), is the record of trial in the case of Private CLAUDE M. 00MBESS (7080335), Battery »C, 70th Field Artillery Battalion.
2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings of guilty of Specification 1 of the Charge and of the Charge, except so much thereof as involve findings of guilty of assault and battery in violation of Article of War 96, be vacated, that so much of the sentence a3 exceeds confinement at hard labor for six months and forfeiture of two-thirds of the soldier's pay per month for a like period be vacated, and that all rights, privileges and property of which he has been deprived by virtue of those portions of the findings and sentence so vacated be restored.
3.	Inclosed is a form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made* Also inclosed is a draft GCJD for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the record pt trial with required copies of GCMD.
3 Inclst
Incl.l Record of trial ■ Incl.2 Form of action ! Incl.3 Draft GCM0 .
(Findings vacated in part in accordance with recommendation of the Assistant Judge Advocate General. So much of sentence as exceeds confinement for six months and involves forfeitures -of $41.66 for like period vacated. GCM0 17, ET0, 16 Mar 1944)
#(65)
