#(293)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General I with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO UQ8
UNITED STATES )
)
v. .	)
Private JOSEPH C.	SARACENO	|
(32029953), Company	"B",	)
39th Infantry.	)
)
)
17 MAR 1944
9TH INFANTKZ DIVISION.
« /
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Cefalu, Sicily 13 September 19A3. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
'HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
If The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.	1
2. Accused wa3 tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE: Violation of the 75th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private Joseph C. Saraceno,
Company "B”, 39th Infantry, then Private First ' Class, Company "B”, 39th Infantry, did in the vicinity of Randazzo, Sicily, on or about August 13, 1943, run away from his Company which was then engaged with the enemy, and did not return until after the engagement had been concluded, August 23, 1943.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction by summary court for absence without leave for four days in violation of Article of War 6l."\ He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for 30 years.* The reviewing authority approved the sentence but remitted so much thereof as involved confinement in excess of 20 years, designated the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas as the. place of confinement, directed that the prisoner be held at Oran, Algeria pend-
- 1 -
(294)
ing further orders and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50%,
3.	The evidence for the prosecution summarizes as'follows:
t Accused was an ammunition bearer in the mortar section of the weapons platoon of Company B, 39th Infantry. On 13 August’ 1943, the first battalion, of which Company B was a unit, was ordered to move from "an assembly area", in column, toward the town, of Randazzo, Sicily.
Company C was the leading unit and Company B was immediately behind it. Company C moved out and came under light fire. Company B followed this unit and received some artillery fire which was not heavy (R8), At about 1500 hours on J-3 August while on a hill it was shelled. Accused ran to First Sergeant Walter P. Zelichowski’s fox hole and said he had been wounded. It was "just a split on the thumb nail" and Zelichowski told accused to remain with him. After the shelling was over, accused informed Zelichowski that he was going to the aid station but the latter told him that he was not hurt seriously enough for that and that.the company aid man would dress his wound. Having been ordered to take up a defensive position overlooking Randazzo (Company C being then under small arms fire), Company B went forward on the Cesaro-Randazzo road. When Zelichowski checked the personnel of the company at 2400 hours, the accused was not present and a search of the area did not disclose him (R5-7), Second Lieutenant Ernest E. McLaughlin, accused's platoon leader, testified that accused was with the platoon during the shelling and after the shelling ceased, and also with it when they had advanced "a little bit further, into a small draw", but that he did not see him after that. No one had been reported to him as wounded up to this time (Rll). The accused was not again seen for ten days when he rejoined his company in the vicinity of Mt, Etna "when the Battalion went into a.more or less rest area after the fall of Randazzo" (R9; Pros.Ex.l). No one had given accused permission to be absent (Rll).
Captain Heinrich Kohlmoos, M.C., Battalion Surgeon, Medical Detachment, 39th Infantry, testified that on the evening of 12 (.gic) August accused came to him with a slight wound, "a very superficial laceration", on the right thumb. He had his technician dress it and told accused to report to his company for duty. The company aid man could have dressed this small wound. Captain Kohlmoos did not remember that accused's right/index finger, as well as his thumb, was injured. There was an "old, healed scar" on that finger, but he could not say how old (R12-13).
4.	Accused was the only witness for the defense. He testified that on the evening of 12 August, "I think it was", hi3 company was shelled by the enemy, A piece of shrapnel hit "both" of his fingers. He ran to another fox hole near the first sergeant and laid there until the shelling was over. When it became dark, his platoon moved out. He asked the first sergeant if he could go on and the sergeant told him to get in back of the platoon. His fingers were/ g etting "all stiff by now" and he stopped in a gully while the rest of the company was moving out "by leaps and bounds" • The soldier ahead of accused did not tell him (as he haul
2
(295)
- promised) that they were moving out and when he looked again for him, he did not see him. Then he ran about 300 yards to catch up with this soldier but did not find him.	He decided to take a "break there" and a
company passed him. He waited there a little while then went back to have his hand dressed. After this, he tried to find his outfit but could not. He lost all Bense of direction and the following morning found himself in the mountains.' He walked all day but did not hear any .gunfire and was "up there" for two days looking around. He came to a dirt road, met a jeep, and rode to Palermo where he inquired of the Provost Marshal the location of the 39th Infantry. He was advised to ride to the stragglers’ post and then secure a ride to Nicosia where the Division CP was located. He waited two days for transportation and then rode on a ration truck. About a day and a half were required to make the journey. He turned himself into the Division stragglers’ post and remained there for two days when "the Division" brought him to his Regiment and he was then taken to his company.
On cross-examination, he stated that the shell, containing the shrapnel which cut his thumb, burst about 15 yards from him. The first sergeant had told him that his wound was "not much" and to go on with the company. He did not tell accused to see the company aid man, nor did accused make an effort to see him. He had remained in his fox hole until the forward part of his company had moved out and he then sought to join it. When he "caught up with the company" he "was all out of wind, and they kept on going on and so I got behind" (RL+-16).
5.	(a) Accused is charged with running away from his company while
it was "engaged with the enemy". The phrase "engaged with the enemy" is equivalent to the phrase "before the enemy" as used in the 75th Article of War (CM ETO 1249, Marchettl. CM ETO 1404, Stack).
(b) The evidence is. clear that accused left his company while before the enemy and did not rejoin it until it. had reached the vicinity of Mt. Etna "when the Battalion went into a more or less rest area after: the fall of Randazzo". While the allegation in the Specifications, "did not return until after the engagement was concluded" wa3 surplusage and did not require proof (CM ETO 1659, Lee) it was fully sustained in this instance.
(c) There is no doubt that accused was "before the enemy" when he ran away. His platoon was actually under artillery fire and its members were required to take cover. This basic element of prosecution's case was sustained by substantialjroof (CM ETO 1249, Marchettl:
CM ETO 1404, Stack: CM ETO 1659, Lee).
I	...	»	.
(d)	There can be no serious contention that accused was suffering from "a genuine and extreme * * * disability at the time of the alleged misbehaviour" such as would constitute a defense (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents - Reprint - p.624). In any event this was a question of fact which was resolved against accused by the findings of the court and being supported by substantial competent evidence will not
- 3 -
be disturbed by the Board of Review (CM .ETO 1409, Mieczkowski: CM ETO 1404, Stack).
6. The charge sheet shows that accused is 24 years nine months of age and was inducted at Buffalo, N.Y. on 16 January 1941. He had no prior service.
7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the per- * son and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights
of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as approved. The punishment for misbehavior before the enemy is death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct (AW 75). Confinement in a United States Disciplinary Barracks is authorized (AW 42). The place of confinement should be changed, however, .to Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven,
New York (Cir.210, WD, 14 Sep 1943, sec.VI, par.2a, as amended by Cir.331, WD, 21 Dec 1943, sec.II, par.2).
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
1st Ind
(297)
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 1 8 WAR 1944 General, 9th Infantry Division, APO 9, U.S. Army.
TO: Commanding
1.	In the case of Private JOSEPH C, SARACENO (32029953)* Company BBn, 39th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as approved, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^-, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	Attention is invited to the designated place of confinement, which should be changed to the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven. New York (Cir.210, TO), 14- Sep 194-3* sec.VI, par.2a, as amended by Cir.331» WD, 21 Dec 194-3* sec.II, par.2). This may be done in the published general court-martial order.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ET0 1408. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order! (ETO 1408).
/L/E. C. McNEIL,
^Brigadier General, United States Arny, • Assistant Judge Advocate General.
- 1 -

#(299)
