#(251)
■ • :	m
• • •	-*	\	i.	*im
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW.
2	V SEP 1943
EIGHTH AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Bristol, England, 18-19 May 194-3 • Sentence* Death.
ETO 739.
UNITED STATES	)
v.	|
Private LESLIE (Niff)	MAXWELL	)
(33084827), 1965th Quartermaster ) Company Truck (Avn).	)
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW,
RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review, and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification*
CHARGE* Violation of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification* In that Private Leslie (Nil)
Maxwell, 196?>th Quartermaster Company Trk (Avn),
Headquarters and Headquarters Detachment 2019th Trk Batallion Aviation Provisional, did at APO 635, AAF Station 4-73 on or about 1700 hours 14- March 194-3 with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation kill one Private first class Leonard R. 3oon, 1965th Quartermaster Company Trk (Avn), Headquarters and. Headquarters Detachment 2019th Trk Battalion Aviation Provisional, a human being by shooting him with a rifle.
He pleaded net guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead. All members of the court
1
htial
present concurred In the findings of guilty and the sentence.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action by the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations under Article of War AS. The Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence but withheld the order directing execution of sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50|-.
3.	The accused and deceased (both colored) were, on 14. March 1943, members of 1965th Quartermaster Company, Truck (Aviation). (All enlisted personnel, except as mentioned, who appeared as witnesses were members of the same organization). They were stationed on said date at AAF Station 473, located at or near Bristol, England (R117). The unit was billeted in Muller's Orphanage Barracks, a three-story structure. The quarters of the soldiers involved in this case were located on the second floor of the building. They consisted of a large barrack or squad room and four attached separate rooms, tv/o at each end. Sleeping cots were arranged in two parallel rows in the squad room with an aisle between the rows. There were two stoves or heaters in the squad room located on left and right of the aisle respectively about equa-distant from a transverse center line. Entry to the squad room was obtained solely through one of these separate rooms which was occupied by T/5 Curtis 0. Hopkins. At the opposite end of the squad room were two smaller rooms; one of which was a latrine and the other was the quarters of deceased and S/S Robert P. Jordan. The accused had his cot in the squad room (R9,l6,17,47,51>54>83; Pros.Ex.A).
4.	On Saturday evening 13 March 1943 accused and deceased had visited neighboring public houses. Accused indulged in the use of intoxicants (R89,90,91,144-)« .He returned to the barracks between 11*00 P.M. and
12 midnight. On Sunday morning 14 March 1943 he arose from his sleep at 8»00 A.M, but ate no breakfast. Soon thereafter he and deceased commenced to gamble at a game of dice. . The play continued for about two hours. Accused won all of deceased's money - 18 or 20 shillings (R144)« Accused ate no lunch. At noon deceased requested accused to buy liim a drink.
The two soldiers went to a public house - "Ashley Hill Station Hotel" (R104,105,144,145) which they entered soon after 12:15 P.M. (R110,lll). They remained at the public house until it closed at 2:00 P.M, The wife ■of the proprietor of the public house, Mrs. Phyllis Wren, was a witness for the prosecution (R104). She testified that no spirits or "hard liquor" were sold to either accused or deceased and asserted that she served accused only with "home brew" - a few drinks - and that deceased drank cider (R105,108,109). V/hen the public house closed, accused and deceased returned to the barracks but neither of them were drunk (R106). Accused reclined on his bed for a time but at the solicitation of deceased the dice game was resumed and continued for about an hour (R145,146) • Accused testified that the game ceased at this time and he left the barracks and went down to the guard gate and met a friend - a British
(253)
_. * I :
soldier - whose name he did not know. The British soldier had a fifth of a quart of whiskey and accused drank half of it. He then returned to the barracks and resumed the dice game vdth deceased in the latter's room. After playing about 20 minutes an argument arose over a bet. Deceased picked up five shillings and retained it against the protests of accused. The game broke off,
5,	The incidents occurring immediately prior and subsequent to and coincident vdth the homicide, as related by witnesses for the prosecution in its case in chief, are as follows:
(a)	T/5 Curtis 0. Hopkins had been to the latrine. As he passed through the squad room he saw accused sitting on a cot near one of the stoves. Witness went to £is own room. The deceased left the squad room and passed through witness's room on his way out. In about five minutes deceased returned and again walked through witness's room into the fequad room (R8). Immediately after deceased walked into the squad room the witness, while in his room, heard a shot. He did not see the discharge but upon hearing the same he went into the squad room. Deceased was on the floor near the left-hand stove. He was bleeding and v/as saying to tell his mother he was dying. He further said: "Don't let him shoot me any more" and "I/hxwell, here's your money. Don't let him shoot me any more" (R8-10). Accused was standing near by with a rifle in his hand.
An empty cartridge was on the floor four or five feet from accused aAd he was trying to re-load the rifle with a live shell. There were coin3 on the floor. Deceased had nothing in his hands (RIO). Corporal Swilley was trying to take the rifle from accused and with witness assisting they succeeded in gaining possession of it (R7,ll), First Sergeant Bellamy appeared and witness offered to deliver the rifle to him but it was refused. Witness laid it on a bed. It smelled like a gun recently fired (Rll),
As Swilley was trying to take the rifle from accused the latter, directing his speech to deceased said: "Are you dead yet? Die, you mother fucker" (R14)» Accused and deceased were friends and witness had seen them together several times (R13).
(b)	Staff Sergeant Robert P. Jordan testified that accused and deceased appeared to be friends as they associated together (R16).
Between 3 and 4*00 P.M. on 14 March 1943 witness left the supply room on the first floor and went to his room adjoining the latrine. Deceased and witness were room-mates. Accused and deceased were in witness's room and were engaged in an argument. Deceased explained the differences arising over five shillings which accused claimed deceased owed him.
Witness refused to act as mediator and referred them to others who knew about gambling. The argument re-commenced. Deceased said: "If you want the money you will have to take it", Accused left the room and as he was leaving replied: "That's all right; I'll get you". The next time witness saw accused was at "chow" between 4*30 P.M. and 5:00 P.M.
Deceased and witness went to "chow" together but witness returned to the supply room. Deceased thereafter came to the supply room and witness
3	-
r;*f
(254)
p * : f' i r r* \ «»*•« k ^
t' W ■ l i i ~ > : I 1 ; . . •„
paid him a florin which he owed for a hair-cut. Deceased left the supply room to go up stairs. About 5 minutes later Corporal Hopkins appeared and informed witness that deceased .had been shot (Rl6,17), whereupon he went up stairs and found deceased lying on the floor.
Accused and the sergeant of the guard were standing outside of the squad room. The first sergeant came in and ordered everyone to leave the room and witness departed (R18).„ Witness smelled alcohol on deceased1s breath while the latter was cutting his hair. Deceased hqd a straight edge razor which he ijsed when cutting witness’s hair (R19). He was company barber and used a straight edge razor to taper customers’ hair. Witness was not close enough to smell accused’s breath. During the argument between accused and deceased in witness’s room, accused appeared normal, was not annoyed and "seemed quite cool" (R2l).
(c)	Corporal Otto Swillev. Accused and deceased appeared to be on friendly terms (R22).Witness saw them together at about 4*30 P.M, on 14 March 1943 in the squad room. He heard accused ask deceased if he were going to pay him ten shillings but did not hear deceased’s reply.
A rifle was discharged and witness turned around and saw deceased lying on the floor. Accused was standing in the middle of the aisle about 4 to 6 feet .from deceased and deceased lay about 2 inches from witness. Accused said to deceased* "Are you dead yet? No." Deceased said*"Please don’t shoot any more." Then accused walked off and said* "I will finish you. Die, you mother flicker" and kicked deceased (R24#25,3A). While deceased was on the floor he kept repeating* "Tell mother I am dying".
He had nothing in his hands; they were folded across his stomach. There was much blood on the floor about deceased. Jones was on the same side of the stove as witness and Johnston was on the other side. Neither of them had a rifle (R33) • When witness turned around accused did not have a gun in his hands but he backed up and got the gun and commenced to reload it (R24). Witness said to accused* "Don’t shoot him any more". Witness grabbed the rifle at the bolt and pushed it against accused’s body to preyent him from re-loading it. The bolt was back and witness could feel the hot empty shell in the chamber and the new live shell which accused was trying to put.into the gun (R36-40). Witness smelled burnt powder (R35). When accused kicked deceased he must have been angry. He saw no money on the floor (R30,3l). He laid hold of accused on his right side. Hopkins came in and grabbed him on his left side (R27). ■ Witness went down stairs and out to the ambulance and brought back a stretcher. Deceased was taken to the dispensary in the same building. Thereafter an ambulance was called and deceased was taken to the British hospital in Bristol, Witness sat in back of ambulance with deceased (R28,29). As deceased was being taken down stairs on the stretcher accused was joking and laughing and said* "Boon, are you going to pay my 10s? If you don’t pay it, you will pay it in hell" (R32).
(d)	rfc. Grady Johnson was sitting on the floor by the stove in the squad room nursing a sore jaw resultant upon a tooth extraction. He saw accused and deceased in the room about 4*30 P.M. 14 March 1943, and
- 4 ■
(255)
beard accused ask deceased when he, deceased, was going to give him, accused, seme money. Deceased replied: "Go ahead now. Don't bother me now". Deceased then left the room but returned in two or three minutes. Accused remained in the room and he had a rifle in his hands when deceased came back into the room. When deceased returned accused said to him:
"Are you going to give me my money?" Then the rifle was fired. Witness did not see it discharged but saw it in accused's hands after it had been fired. Deceased was lying on the floor about 16’ paces from witness and there was blood about him. Accused and deceased were about 6 feet apart. Witness saw no money on the floor, and saw nothing in deceased's hands. ’Witness left and went to the orderly room (RA1-A3,A6). Later in the evening at about 7:00 o'clock witness saw accused at some office. He asked witness for a cigarette and inquired of Swilley if he were going to make his date that night. He was joking and laughing and did not seem concerned over what had happened (RA7,A8).
(q) Private Herbert Jones testified that deceased and Sergeant Jordan lived together in a room adjoining the barrack room on and prior to 1A March 19A3.	Accused and witness lived in the squad room. At about
A:30 P.M. on the before mentioned date witness was in the squad room putting on his leggins preparatory to going on guard at 5:00 P.M, (5A-57). His rifle was on his cot# Accused was sitting on a cot but he went over to Private Jerry Jones and took his rifle. Jerry Jones took his rifle away from accused and the accused went to witness's cot and took his rifle.
Witness told nim three or four times to put it down but he paid no attention to the request but stood in the middle of the floor holding the rifle (R53, 62). Deceased came into the room from the front of the building and advanced towards accused, who held the rifle low on his hip (R62). The front of the building is where the door is shown in Pros.Ex#A.	Accused asked
deceased for money. Deceased came within seven feet of accused (R62). The rifle was fired# Witness did not see the rifle discharged because he was putting on his leggins. He was sitting 10 or 12 ft from accused (R63). He heard the report and then ran out of the building# He did not thereafter see deceased# Accused had witness's rifle bearing serial number 3307695, which witness identified in court. Witness had had personal possession of the rifle for over a week and had kept it in the squad room under his cot. After the shooting on 1A March 19A3, witness took his rifle to the guard-room and turned it over to Sergeant Bellamy, and he had not seen it until produced in court (R58). Witness had no ammunition in his possession at time of shooting (R65). Iu the early part of the morning of 1A B&rch 19A3 witness saw accused and deceased in a crap game, but was not close enough to accused to notice whether or not he had been drinking but he did not think accused was drunk (R59). After the shooting witness saw accused at the guardhouse and on instructions from the officer of the day. witness and corporal of the guard took accused down to the guard-room (R60).
(f) T/5 Fred Howard was, between 3 and A*00 P.M. on 1A March 19A3, standing in the doorway which leads from the main squad room to an adjoining
■». i
room and thence to the outside. Deceased passed through this doorway grid room. Shortly thereafter he returned and passed witness in the* doorway. While deceased was absent, accused, who was in the squad room, picked up a rifle (R67,72) and sat down oh one of the beds with the rifle across his knees. When deceased re-entered the squad room accused stood in front of deceased - about 7 or 8 feet from him (R71,72) - and asked about some money. Accused was cool and normal (R72). Accused made a step backwards and the gun discharged (R67). The barrel of the gun was pointed towards deceased's ankles but when it was fired it recoiled upwards (R68,71). Witness was looking directly at accused and deceased and saw the gun discharged.
Deceased fell to the ground and accused came to him saying: "If you ain't dead. I'll finish you off, you son of a bitch" (R68) or "Give me another bullet and I'll finish you off, you is on of a bitch" (R74). Deceased had both hands in his pockets when shot (R68). He was standing still. Witness did not see deceased make any threatening move towards accused nor did he hear him make any threatening remarks. He did not have anything in his hands. Deceased fell to the left of the stove and soon the blood began to flow. There was a half-crown on the floor* A stretcher was brought and deceased was taken out (R69). After accused had fired the first shot he tri£d to re-load the rifle but he was grabbed by Swilley and Hopkins.
Swilley grabbed the gun around the firing chamber and Hopkins interfer*ed.
On the steps as accused left the room he got pretty angry. He said to give him another bullet and he would finish deceased (R69,70).
(g)	Private A. D. Whitthorne saw accused and deceased together most of the day on jZ”iferchl9Z3~(H78yi He saw them leave the barracks building together and later at about "chow" time in the squad room witness heard accused ask deceased to give him five shillings. At that time deceased was going through the room. He replied: "Go ahead and quit fucking with me" and they continued arguing. Hampton was shining his shoes and he said something to deceased in a jocular manner. Deceased went into the other room and after a short time came back into the large room, and started down the aisle. Accused had been sitting on a cot but as deceased returned to the room accused sprang from the cot and went into the middle of the floor and said: "Are you going to give me my 5s?" (R81,82). He was carrying the rifle and had it pointed at deceased so that a bullet “would hit about his belt buckle. Accused pulled the trigger about 50 seconds after he asked the question. Witness was looking at accused when he fired, but he did not hear deceased make any replyto accused's question. Witness neither heard deceased utter any threatening remarks towards accused nor did he see him make any threatening gestures. Accused appeared to be acting normally.
As soon as the shot was fired deceased fell slowly towards the floor.
Witness left the room to notify Sergeant Bellamy and did not return (R83,84),
(h)	Private Philip Hampton saw accused and deceased together in the
large barrack room at about 5:00 P.M. on 14 March 19A3.	They were engaged
in an argument. Witness said to them: "You boys cut out the arguing". He was preparing to shine his shoes. Both accused and deceased appeared to
- 6 -
OOMF’DE'jTlAL
have been drinking heavily (R92). Deceased walked out of the room saying: "Oh, flick it". Accused remained. In a few minutes deceased returned. Witness was busy shining his shoes. There was a report of a gun and witness turned around and saw accused standing holding a Remington rifle. Deceased fell to the floor and said: "You have shat me", and then he cried: "Tell mother I am dying". Accused walked over to deceased and said: "Die,
I don’t believe you are dead" and then kicked deceased, who was struggling and trying to get up. Accused had pulled the bolt of the rifle back and was trying to re-load it. Swilley and Hopkins took the gun away from accused who was angry (R85-88). The first sergeant appeared and deceased was taken to the dispensary. Accused was standing at the top of the stairs when deceased was being carried out and said: "Die, you son of a bitch. You won’t pay me my 10s, but you will pay it off in hell" (R89). Accused was pretty drunk at the time of the shooting. He did not try to run away but was laughing and joking while deceased was dying (R93)»
6.	The prosecution introduced, in its case in chief, the following additional evidence:
(a)	Dr. Betty Fox, a regularly licensed physician under the British law, was Senior Resident Medical Officer of the Bristol Royal Infirmary, Bristol, England, on 14 March 1943 (R74-75). She testified that at about 5:30 P.M. on said date a colored American soldier, whose papers identified him as Leonard Boon, was brought to the hospital in an ambulance. Witness examined him. He was suffering from an entry wound in the abdomen a little to the right side and an exit wound in the back to the left sacroiliac joint. The latter wound was the size of a half-crown and jagged. The two wounds were beyond any doubt gun-shot wounds. There was a good deal of hemorrhage from the exit wound. He was brought into the infirmary in an unconscious condition,and pulseless. He died within 15 minutes after his admission between 5:4-5 P.M. and 5*50 P.M. Death of the patient was caused by the wounds, and there was no evidence of other wounds or causes of death. Witness noticed the deceased's personal effects and among them was a straight-edged razor (R76-78).
(b)	Lieut. Colonel Francis Bayless. M.C.. 298th General Hospital, Chief of the Laboratory Service, performed an autopsy on deceased on 16 March 1943 at the laboratory of the 298th, General Hospital. Without objection from the defense the witness refreshed his memory from "The medical examination autopsy of Leonard Boon". The autopsy report was not introduced in evidence. The witness testified that the body of an American soldier was transferred from the Bristol Royal Infirmary to the morgue of the 298th General Hospital. The body was identified as that of deceased by an American officer. The deceased had been shot in the abdomen by a rifle or revolver bullet. The projectile passed through the intestines and spine and made its exit in the lower part cf the small of the back. Other than evidence of the recent gun-shot wounds, there was nothing abnormal revealed by the autopsy examination. There was evidence
(258)
COXflGBlTIAL
of loss of considerable blood. The wounds and the results thereof were the cause of death. The bullet shattered the 5th lumbar vertebrae (R94-96).
(c)	1st Lieutenant John Pikulln of the 1965th Q.M, Company, Truck, was Company Commander and Officer of the Day on 14 March 1943 at AAF Station 473* He testified that deceased was assigned to said station on such date and identified accused in court* Witness first saw accused on that date
at the barracks which was filled with men. When witness asked who did the shooting accused spoke up and said* "Here I am lieutenant, I did it".
Later he stated to the witness to "let him have it". Accused was taken to the guard-house*	Witness saw deceased at Bristol Royal Infirmary after
he was dead (R97).
On and prior to 14 March 1943 there were 102 rifles issued to the company. They were entered in the company property book by the serial numbers of each rifle. Each soldier was assigned a specific rifle by number, and entry of such fact was made in the property record. Rifles were kept in the store room and were issued only when men went on guard*
The guard was composed of 10 privates and 2 non-commissioned officers*
When a soldier went on guard his rifle was delivered to him by the sergeant who made notation of such fact* The guards kept their rifles in the guard-room and used the rifles which had been assigned to them by serial number. Prior to. 14th March 1943 no ammunition had been issued - not even to the guard. The only time witness issued ammunition to guards was the occasion when he issued it to special guards put on duty the night accused was placed in the guard-house. On the night deceased was shot, witness had his first-sergeant pick up Herbert Jones’ rifle and lock it up in the supply room in witness’s custody, where it has been kept (R98-101).
(d)	1st Lieutenant William R. Lynch. C.M.P. testified that on
14 March 1943 he was assistant Provost Marshal of the Bristol Garrison, and was called by telephone to Muller’s Orphanage at about 5*10 p,m. On arriving at the barrack-room he saw blood on the floor, and then went to the guard-house where accused was confined. Witness handcuffed accused and as a precautionary measure placed him in the staff car and took him to the guard-house in Bristol for confinement. Accused rode with witness in the back seat of the car* Witness asked accused why he killed deceased, or shot at him. Accused replied* "He owed me this money which we had in this crap game, and I asked him if he would not give me the money back* He said he would not give it to me, so I just up and let him have it". Accused was not intoxicated and his actions, were rational. Accused had been on M.P, duty in Bristol and he talked with Sergeant Swartold, who sat in. the front seat, and laughed and joked j(R117,118). When accused and 'witness arrived at the Provost Marshal’s, office in St. Stephen’s building in Bristol a statement was taken from accused in the presence of Sergeant Schantz of the Investigation Division of the London office of the Provost Marshal General, Accused was duly warned of his rights. The statement was read to him, which he signed of his free will, in the presence of
- 8
\	,	v;	-
(259)
witness (R119). In the automobile ride to the Bristol office witness made no threats to accused nor did he hold out any promises to him.
Accused and witness engaged in a conversation wherein witness asked accused! "Maxwell, what was your idea in shooting this man?" and then he made the explanation previously stated (R120).
(e)	1st Lieutenant John Dubach. Q.M.C. testified he made the required investigation of the instant case under M 70, Lieutenant Lynch and his sergeant had previously obtained a statement from accused* The original copy (which accused had signed) was in possession of Lieutenant Pikulin, The witness had a true copy made of it. Accused was at Disciplinary Training Center #1 at Shepton Mallet in Somerset, Witness went to see him on 18 March 194-3 and spent about three-quarters of an hour with him. He had the copy of accused’s previous statement with him and presented it to accused with full warning of his rights. There were no threats used nor promises made and there was no argument - "just a discussion, very factual, and plainly spoken"* Witness read to accused the copy of his previous statement and then gave accused himself opportunity to read it. Accused read it. Witness asked accused whether the gun housed was his own or the property of someone else. Accused said he did not know but he did not believe it was his gun, and finally said he did not know whose gun it was - it was just a gun as far as he was concerned* Therefore, in his presence, witness drew a line through the word "my" preceding the word "gun" and inserted-the letter "a". Accused initialed the change, and finally signed the copy in the presence of the witness (B121-125), The prosecution offered the statement in evidence (R122), but on objection by the defense it was excluded, after the court had been closed for deliberation. The President announced the decision of the court (R127).
Subsequently, after Prosecution’s Ex*D. had been admitted in evidence, the statement of 18 March 1943, signed by accused in the presence of Lieutenant Dubach, was again offered in evidence by the prosecution. The law member sustained an objection by the defense and the statement was again excluded (R134)* It is not attached to nor made a part of the record of trial, although same does appear among the statements taken on the investigation*
(f)	Staff Sergeant Vernon H* Schantz. Investigations Division. Provost Marshal General’s Office testified that on Sunday evening 14 March 1943, upon being notified of trouble at Muller’s Orphanage Barracks in Bristol, he went down to that place and investigated the case. Accused was taken from the barracks down to the Provost Marshal General’s Office in Bristol (R123)* He was duly warned that he was not required to speak, but that if he did speak his statement would be used against him in any resulting court-martial trial* He understood his rights and voluntarily made a statement. He was not threatened nor were any promises made to him* He was not drunk and seemed very much in control of his senses (B129,130,132). The witness without objection then testified*
- 9 ••
(Hnc-n^AL
(260)
rn:<qn'Trr I
'i • J ! i i.'tL
ttA. I asked him to tell me what he did the whole -day, to give me the chronology of what he did, and he told me that he had been shooting crap with Boon. I think he said he had cleaned Boon out, and then decided to go down and do some drinking down one of the pubs, and he did. As I recall, they were drinking until about 1400 hours, 2 o’clock in the afternoon. Then they returned to their billet and they started to shoot crap again. Some argument arose as to a point that they were shooting for. I think when they shot crap the first time Private ifexwell won all the money, and then Boon borrowed some money from somebody, or got some money some place, and they started to -shoot crap again. This time Boon was lucky, and in the course of the shooting of the game, the gambling game, they had an argument and they stopped shooting dice. Then they argued and argued for some time, and Maxwell said that Boon owed him some money.
Q. This is all what Maxwell’ said?
A. This is all what Maxwell told me. So they stopped shooting crap, and they were walking around the billetsj one was following the other and pestering each other for their money, and they got worked up about this argument. I think Maxwell told me they went into the latrine and in there they had some more arguments, at which time I think he drew, a razor on him. He walked out, went over to one of the beds in the billet where he slept in the room and picked up a gun. , He said it was his gun, but it turned out later not to be.
He put a cartridge in it and as Boon came into the room again he walked down the center of the room and he said* ’Boon, I am going to ask you once more. Are you going to pay me the money you owe me?’ I ' forget what Boon’s answer was; so he took aim and said he pulled the trigger and discharged the rifle. Boon fell down and some other soldier in the room made a run for Iah.xwell and took the gun from him. ■*■*#**#**#'**•******#*
- 10 -
(261)
Q. Did he bring the rifle up to the normal shooting position with the butt on the shoulder or what. In what position did he shoots
A. Not the way he showed me. He said he was loading the gun, ’So I stepped back and I said ’Are you going to pay me now?' and he said he was not -and the next thing I knew the trigger went off.* I do not think he .had it up to his shoulder." (R129,130).'
Over the objection of defense the court admitted in evidence accused’s statement made to S/S Schantz on 14- Ihrch 194-3 (R133)» and same is "Prosecution’s Ex.D." and is attached to the record*. The same is as follows t
The following stated by S/Sgt. Vernon H. Schantz, ASN ^3024^82, ID, Pffi Det., to Pvt. Leslie Maxwell, ASN 33084827, 1965th Q.M.Trucking Co., APO 635*
It is my duty to inform you that anything you might say may be used for or against you should this investigation result in a courts martial and you are making this statement of your own free will and without fear or promise of reward.
Do you understand what I have said? Answer by Pvt. Maxwell. "I do."
Ly name is Pvt. Leslie Maxwell. I was born on August 5, 1918. I was inducted into the U.S.
Army June 24-, 1941* On March 14-, 194-3 between the hours of 11 and 12 this morning, Pvt. Boon and I were gambling by shooting craps.. I won about eighteen shillings from him, we were shooting for half a crown, a roll, and I broke him. He borrowed some more money from a friend, and I broke him again. He, Boon, then borrowed two (2) pounds from me and Boon and I went to a pub right down the hill from Mullers Orphanage and had some whiskey, beer and- cider. We were alone. We entered the pub at about 1200 hours and left about 14-00 hours. We were both about high and came on back to the barracks. I was sitting on the bed and Boon suggested gambling again and I told him that I had broke him twice and he wanted me to give him another gamble for- his money. And so we started gambling and he got- lucky this tima and Boon won all but ten (10) shillings of mine.
We then had a misunderstanding in that he said that his point was nine and he hit a seven and
- 11
said he wanted his money back. We were shooting for ten (10) shillings. He said-either I get my money back or I quit gambling. I said you can quit gambling because I would not give him his money back. • After we stopped gambling I said Boon, pay me the money that you owe me. Boon said that he was not going to pay me the money he owed me. I said after all you’re wrong and if I had been right I would have paid you.
So he said think what you want, if you want your two pound you can get it out of ny ass, I said me and you are friends and we don’t want to fall out over two pounds. He said Well I am not going to pay you and I am through arguing with you. I said ’’Well I am through arguing too." I went out of Boon's room and into the latrine and Boon followed me there* I tried to talk to him there and asked for my money again. I seed that I couldn't talk .to him and so ha got hot and I got hot too. So he draws his razor out and I walked off. aways from him and went out of the latrine.
I went in the barrack and got ray gun and put one shell in and Boon comes through the barrack and I walked out in the middle of the floor and I said "Boon are you going to Pay me my money?"
And he said "No I am not going to pay you your money and kept walking toward me." I just touched the trigger and Boon fell and he said I'LL pay you your money,- you did not have to do that. And L said I tried- to talk to you but you didn't listen, Cpl. Swilley -took my rifle away from me as I was trying to put another cartridge into it. I had three rounds of amunition in my possession since I was at Hattieburg, Mississippi, a period ox about four months. This is the whole story and the best I can remember it.
Leslie Ivhxwell PVT. LESLIE MAXRELL, ASH 3308^827 1965, Q.M. Trucking Co.
7/itnessed by:
Vernon H1. Schantz VERNON H. SCHANTZ,
ID, Pi© Det.
PROSECUTION EXHIBIT D.
- 12
(263)
Lieutenant Pikulin delivered to the witness a bullet which witness marked with the letter "V" (R135). While in the Barracks on 14. March 1943 the witness inspected an Army 30 Remington rifle bearing the number 3307695 which had the initials "F.J.A." oh the left side of the stock to the rear of the trigger* He smelled the barrel and noticed a trace of discharged powder. He identified the rifle produced in court as the- rifle he described (RI36).
(g)	1st Lieutenant Pikulin was recalled as a witness (R136) and testified that on the afternoon of 1A March 1913 he recovered a bullet from the floor of the squad room by means of a crow-bar. He found it. about 8 or 9 feet from the pool of blood. Sergeant Schantz marked the bullet with the letter "V" and returned it to witness who placed it in the battalion safe until the assistant trial judge advocate obtained it (R137). A bullet was produced in court, bearing the letter "V", which was identified by the witness as the bullet* recovered by him from the squad room floor. Over objection by the defense it was admitted in evidence and marked ’’Prosecution* s Ex.E." (R139) . It was subsequently withdrawn with consent of the court.
(h)	By stipulation of the counsel a picture of the barrack or squad room was accepted in evidence and is attached to the record and marked "Prosecution's Ex, A.’’.
(i)	S/S Robert P. Jordan upon being recalled as a witness testified that he was the custodian of the company property book and that he personally made the entries therein; that when rifles were issued to the company the numbers appearing on them were immediately entered in the property book by him and that when rifles were issued to an individual soldier his name appears in the record book opposite the number of the rifle delivered to him (R102);1that 'according to the property record book, on 14. March 1943, rifle #3307695 had been issued to Pvt. Herbert Jones and rifle #3306060 had been issued to accused (R103).
Thereupon the prosecution offered in evidence rifle #3307695 and without objection from the defense it was accepted in evidence and marked "Prosecution's Ex. B,". With permission of the court it was subsequently withdrawn (R103).
(j)	Without objection, an extract copy of the entry in the company property book, showing that rifle #3307695 had been issued to Pvt. Herbert Jones was admitted in evidence and attached to the record of trial as "Prosecution's Ex, C." (R103). The witness further testified that no ammunition had ever been issued accused through the company supply room (R103).
(k)	Oil stipulation of counsel "Report of Examination and Observation in the case of Pvt. Leslie (NMl) Maxwell, 33084827" dated
8 May 1943 and signed by Moses M. Frolick, Major, M.C., Homer A. Howes,
- 13
(26A)
Captain, M.C., and Alexander T. Ross, 1st Lieut. M.C., all of the Neuropsychiatric section of the 293th General Hospital was admitted in evidence as "Prosecution’s Ex. F." (RlAO). The report- shows that accused has been subjected to observation from 28 April 19A3 to 8 May 19A3 and that:
"a. He was not suffering from any defect of reason from disease of the mind either at the time of the alleged crime or at the time of our observation, b. He was able to understand the nature of the proceedings at a court-martial, to object to any member of the court, to instruct his defending officer, and to understand details of evidence".
(Prosecution’s Ex. F.).
7.	The following evidence and testimony was presented by the defense:
(a)	Attached to the record is copy of a "Report of Psychiatric Examination of Maxwell, Leslie (NMl) Private, ASN 3308A827n dated 19 March 19A3 and addressed to Commandant, Disciplinary Training Center #1, APO 508. The report recites that pursuant to SO #36, par.6, Hqs. 36th Station Hospital, the accused was examined on 19 March 1943. It was the opinion of the board that the accused was not psychotic. The report further recites:
"3 - Psychometric examination reveals the following score:	Kent	emergency test
(1941 edition) il.A. Ten years; Binet-Simon test (Revised) M.A, Eight years Ten Months.
It is the opinion of this board that this man is a high level moron, and that he is responsible for his acts,"
The foregoing report was admitted in evidence and marked "Defense Exhibit A" (R14).
(b)	The accused elected to appear as a sworn witness in his own behalf*after the law member had explained to him his legal rights* He testified in substance as follows:
That he was born in Ruston, Georgia, and came to Philadelphia when three years of age.	He spent eight years in school progressing as
far as the fourth grade.	He was placed in a school for children of
deficient mentality. He left school when 15 years old and thereafter became involved in petty crime which resulted in a reform school sentence of two years of which he served 18 months. He met the deceased in
(265)
C^::!OEHT!AL
Hattiesburg, Mississippi, and had knovm him about six months prior to the homicide. Accused and deceased were fellow soldiers and'had '‘gone out together to pubs.“ On Saturday night 13 March 1943* he'visited public houses in Bristol and drank whiskey, beer and cider - 5 or 6 doubles, A ciders, some shandies and beer. He returned to the barracks between 11:00 p.ra. and 12 midnight. He ate no breakfast on Sunday morning 1A March 19A3 because he "was not feeling so good". Deceased and accused commenced gambling at about 3:00 a.m. and continued about two hours. Accused "broke" deceased, winning 18 or 20 shillings from him. He had no lunch (R1AA)*
At noon deceased asked him to buy him a drink. The two soldiers went to a public house where accused consumed A pints of cider, 3‘shandies, some beer and two "shots of whiskey". Deceased had about the same amount of beverages (R1A5>15A)» At 2:00 p.m. they returned to the barracks, and upon deceased*s request the gambling was resumed. The game - "shooting craps" - continued about a half-hour or A5 minutes (R1A5), when accused went down to the guard-room and there remained about half an hour. He met a friend - a British soldier (whose name he did not know) who had a fifth' of a quart of whiskey and he drank half of it. Returning to the barracks he and deceased commenced to gamble again. After playing for about. 20 minutes an argument arose between them over a bet (R1A6). Deceased picked up five shillings and accused demanded its return, but deceased refused to return it. • They had been playing in deceased* s room. Accused went into the latrine, Swilley, Hampton and deceased were also in the latrine. Accused said to deceased: "Boon ypu are wrong. You have no right to take my money like that. Don’t take my money". Deceased replied: "I don’t want to argue with you. If you want your money get it out of my ass". Then he drew a straight-edge razor. Deceased was 2 feet distant but made no move towards accused. Hampton told accused and deceased to quit arguing and told deceased to put his razor in his pocket. He put the razor in his pocket and walked out of the latrine (R1A3,153). Accused went into the barrack room and picked up a rifle and put a cartridge in it. Deceased came out of the latrine and accused said to him: "Boon, give me my money". Deceased had his hands in his pockets and kept walking towards accused. Accused stepped backwards two feet and a soldier bumped into him. The rifle "went off". He did not intend to take deceased's life. Accused did not know the soldier he bumped into; he was drunk at the time. When he shot the rifle deceased fell, Swilley and the other soldiers surrounded accused and took the rifle away from him. He knew deceased was shot and that the gun in his hands had Shot him. The gun was pointing towards the floor and deceased, kept coming towards him and did not stop. He was three or four feet away when the rifle was discharged. The gun must have kicked up when it was discharged so that the bullet would strike deceased in the abdomen. Accused put a bullet in the gun because deceased had "pulled" a razor on him. He was not going to’shoot him unless he tried to hurt accused with the razor. Deceased kept walking towards him with his hands in his pockets and although accused kept asking him for money, deceased said nothing (R1A8,151,152). He did not have any reason to believe accused would hurt him; they had had a little misunderstanding over money (R15A). After deceased was shot, accused was excited and cursed (R1A8). He admitted that when he walked up to deceased he saici; "Die, you mother fucker"
- 15 -
COMROftillAl
( 266 )	(JI: i;; S L; • i SAL
(R156), but denied that he said anything further to him (R156) and also denied that he kicked Him (R149,154-).
Accused asserted he secured the cartridge from deceased when there was a change in their duties from M.P. to guard duty and vice versa; he did not bring the ammunition from Hattiesburg, Mississippi. When he stated such fact in his confession he was "high" and the Military Police "hollered*1 at him and crowded around him and that statement was the first thing that came to his mind. He obtained the cartridges.while in Bristol (R14B), He kept the bullets in his pocket. He gCt them "off a guard about 2 or 3 days before" and intended to turn them into 'the supply room. He had three rounds of 30-30 ammunition (R15A). If he had turned the ammunition into -the supply room he would have to tell that he and deceased got into some trouble so he did not turn it in (R156). He picked up a rifle from a cot and put one round in the gun and had the other two rounds in his “pocket. After he fired the first shot he took another round from his pocket and tried to put it into the gun but was prevented by Swilley and other soldiers who surrounded him. He was "quite high" and was angry because deceased had pulled a razor on him about five minutes previously (R156).
(c)	There was presented to the court a written stipulation dated 18 I,'ay 19A3, between the trial judge advocate and defense counsel*, whereby it was agreed that upon admission of deceased to the Bristol-Royal Infirmary certain specifically described articles of personal property,,including "one razor, straight edge, barber's shop style" were found on deceased's person by Sister Kathleen Mackintosh. The stipulation was admitted in evidence, marked "Defense Exhibit B" and attached to the record of trial (RU7).
(d)	An extract copy of accused's'service record as shown by a series of indorsements was admitted in evidence upon presentation by defense and marked "Defense Exhibit C" and attached to the record of trial (R149). The same is as follows*
Extract from Service Record of Private LESLIE M&KWELL.
1st Indorsement*
Character:	Excellent,
Efficiency rating as a	soldier:	Not observed.
2nd Indorsement:
Character:	Excellent.
Efficiency rating as a	soldier:	Excellent,
3rd'Indorsement:
Character:	Excellent.
Efficiency rating as a	soldier*	Excellent.
I; - • ;
!M
t j i U
16
(267)
CO-vIDENTIAL
5th Indorsement:
.Character*	Unsatiafactory.
Efficiency rating as a soldier* • Unsatisfactory,
8,	The evidence of the Prosecution on rebuttal consisted of testimony of the following witnesses*
T/5 Fred Howard testified that he was sitting behind deceased and he was looking at accused when the rifle was discharged* He was positive that there was no person standing back of accused and that accused did not back into any ohe at that time. Accused backed up but he did not bump into any thing or any person. After the shot was fired accused walked over to deceased and kicked him and spoke about giving him another bullet and finishing him off (R158-160).
Private A. D. Whitt home testified he was looking at accused when the gun was fired; that there was no one behind him; that he was positive the gun did not hit anyone causing it to discharge and that accused did not back into any person (Rl60,l6l). .
Corpctfal Otto Swillev declared he was not in the latrine with accused and deceased a short time before the rifle was fired and that he did not see deceased pull out a razor and threaten accused at any time (R162),
Private Philip Hampton denied that he was in the latrine with accused and deceased at any time during the afternoon of the homicide and denied that he had seen deceased threaten accused with a razor (R164-),
First Lieutenant Alexander T. Ross. M.C, of the 298th General Hospital explained certain terms of Prosecutions Ex, A, and stated in particular that the Kent and Binet-Simon tests are for tests of intelligence, education and experience and not of insanity, A low mental age does not necessarily indicate that a person is insane (Rl65-166),
Pfc. Grady Johnson testified he saw accused immediately after the shot was fired and there was no one behind him,. Accused and deceased were about the same height (R168,169),
9.	Certain irregularities in the admission of evidence and of procedural practice require comment*
(a)	Prosecutions Exhibit A,- photograph of interior .of barracks (R50), and Exhibit F,- Report of 298th General Hospital (R142) were admitted in evidence as a result of the trial judge advocate*s statement that a stipulation had been agreed upon but in each instance the record does not show the assent of defense counsel to the stipulation nor his affirmation of its existence. However, it is obvious from a study of the record that defense counsel fully understood the purpose and import of the stipulations and of the evidence thereby admitted. Under such circumstances the spirit and substance of par«124b, p,136, MCM 1928 are met, and no prejudice resulted to accused thereby.
- 17 -
V j~| ■ .
•*• • • ♦ j •U
(b)	The.record does not show that the court formally accepted Prosecution's Exhibit F in evidence* However, the law member ordered it to be marked for identification, and inasmuch as it was being considered simultaneously with Defense Exhibit A which was affirmatively admitted in evidence, there is sufficient in the record to sustain the inference that Prosecution's Exhibit F was accepted, in evidence by the court.
(c)	Staff Sergeant Robert P. Jordan testified he was in the supply room when Corporal Charles 0, Hopkins came down and told him that deceased,, had been shot. Objection by defense that such evidence was hearsay (R17,
18) was overruled by the law member who stated "it is part of the res gestae". The ruling was erroneous (CM ETO A3&, Smith: CIvI ETO 709, Lakas). However, the*error of the court was harmless; it did not in any respect prejudice the rights of accused.
(d)	On cross-examination of Prosecution's witnesses, Hopkins (R12, 13), Swilley (R31,32), Johnson (RA8) and Hampton (R90-93), defense counsel attracted the attention of each witness to a'prfor written statement made by him wherein each witness made assertions conflicting with certain testimony given by him on direct examination. In each instance the witness was permitted to identify his signature appearing on his prior written statement. The law member ruled that the written statement should not be handed to the witness for inspection, but that defense counsel should ask him if. at a specific time and place he stated to defense counsel a certain fact. Defense counsel in each instance read excerpts from the written statement and asked the witness if at a certain time and place^had made such quoted statement, Hopkins, Johnson and Hampton frankly admitted each had testified erroneously on direct examination and that each had made the prior statement attributed, to him. Swilley made explanatory statements which attempted to reconcile his direct testimony with his written statement.
"The foundation must be first laid for impeaching a witness, by calling his attention to the time, place and circumstances of the contradictory statements, whether they were in writing; or made orally; **•**. The written statement having been presented to the witness, and he having admitted that what purported to be his signature to it was his signature, it was perfectly open to him to read it, and he could have been inquired of as to the circumstances under which it was taken down and signed, so as to advise the jury as to its authenticity and the credit to be given to it."
(Chicago, M. and St. P.R. Co, v. Artery, 137 •
U.S, 507,520; 34 L, Ed., 747,751$ See also 70 C.J., sec.1290, p.1113).
The ruling of the law member was unduly restrictive in not permitting the witnesses to inspect and read their respective written statements. However,
(269)
wqrr :'r"'>
there was substantial compliance with proper impeachment practice* The attention of each witness was called to the time and place and the person to whom his prior statement was made, and he was given the opportunity to deny, affirm or explain the same* Inasmuch as three of the witnesses admitted their prior conflicting statements and the fourth witness offered an explanation but did not deny his statement, no prejudice resulted to accused because the court did not allow the witnesses to read their prior statements•
With respect to defense’s impeaching questions directed to Hampton which contained alleged prior statements by Hampton that it was his ’’reaction *-* Maxwell would not have done any shooting if- he had not been drunk" and "I feel Maxwell would not have shot Boon or said what he said if he had not been drunk" (R92,93), it is manifest that such statements were but conclusions of the witness and v/ere inadmissible as original evidence. It was for this reason that the law member sustained prosecution’s objections to the impeaching questions. There is authority sustaining such reason (70 C.J., sec.1239, p.1053} Sec,1252, p,1067). However, the witness in his direct examination was not questioned as to accused's intoxication, nor was he asked for his opinion concerning the cause of-accused's conduct. The impeaching questions did not relate to inconsistent statements contained in his testimony in chief. They were for this reason improper (70 C.J., sec,1241, p.1055, foot-note 90} Sec,1274» p,1079, foot-note 64), Further, the question of accused's intoxication was raised by the defense on cross-examination of Hampton, The witness testified*that neither deceased nor accused were drunk (R92). The defense by the impeaching questions attempted to controvert this statement, , Such practice is prohibited, and for this additional reason the law member was correct in his ruling (70 C.J., sec.1010, p.805, foot-note 85} Sec,1345, p.1163, foot-note 6).
(e)	On direct examination of Prosecution's witnesses, Herbert Jones (R52), VJhitthorne (R80,8l) and Hampton (R89) each witness gave answers to interrogatories, which the trial judge advocate'asserted were in conflict with prior written statements made by each witness. Over objection by the defense the trial judge advocate was permitted to present to each witness his prior written statement made at the time of the official investigation. In each instance the witness, after reading his statement, corrected his testimony to correspond with the written statement. The statements themselves were not introduced as independent evidence. No impeachment by the trihl judge advocate of the Prosecution's witnesses was thus attempted. The witnesses having unexpectedly given testimony at variance with prior statements, the trial judge advocate properly called each witness's attention to his former statement "to refresh his memory and move him to speak the truth by probing his conscience, thus inducing him to correct his testimony or explain apparent inconsistency" in his testimony (3 Wharton's Criminal Evidence, sec,1392‘, p.2278} Wigmore's Code of.Evidence, sec.825} 70 C.J,, sec.1227, p.1032).	The method pursued in the instant case conformed with
the practice heretofore approved by the Board of Review (CM ET0 438, Smith, par.5(f), pp.10-13)•
- 19
TMt
(270)
(f ) Lieut. Colonel Francis tBayless, M.C., a witness for the Prosecution, performed the autopsy examination on deceased* ; He was permitted to refresh his memory from the autopsy report without objection from defense (R95). The report was.not introduced in evidence, but copy of same is attached to the record as part of the investigation under AW 70.
It purports to be signed by Dr. Bayless. The practice was regular (70 C.J., sec.749, p.5S3; Sec.758, p.587, foot-note 81).
(g) Staff Sergeant Vernon T. Schantz, Investigations Division, Provost Marshal General’s Office a witness for the prosecution, testified that he talked with the accused on the evening of the homicide at the Bristol office of the Provost Marshal (R128). After testifying that he duly warned accused of his rights he proceeded to relate accused’s narrative to him of the events of the homicide (R129,130). Thereafter was produced "Prosecution’s Exhibit D" which is accused’s signed confession. It was admitted in evidence (R133)• The testimony of Sohantz as to What accused said to him on this occasion is in substance the same as accused’s statement in "Prosecution's Exhibit D". Schantz conversed with accused between 7:00 p.m. and 7:30 p.m; the’statement was signed by accused about 8:00 p.m. Defense counsel objected to the admission of "Prosecution*s Exhibit D" but offered no objection to Schantz’s previous oral recitation of accused’s narrative.	'
In a number Of cases the Board of Review and The Judge Advocate General have set aside oonvictiorfs because oral* evidence was admitted Of ' written confessions without accounting for the original (CM*134547, Dig.
Ops.JAG., 1912-1930, par.1295, p.641; CM 160570. Hembree et al). However, these opinions were written before publication of the 1928 edition of Manual for Courts-Martial, now in force, which in paragraph U6a says:
"An objection to proffered evidence of the contents of a document based on any of the following grounds may be regarded as waived, if not asserted when the proffer is made:
It does not appear that the original has been lost, destroyed, or is otherwise unavailable; ****".
In effect the above quoted provision means that the best evidence rule will riot be enforced unless the party, against whom the oral evidence is offered, interposes timely objection thereto and requires that the written document be produced. Consequently the rule indicated in CM 134547 and CM 160570, supra, is modified^ to the extent indicated by the quoted provision from MDM 1928 edition. The later holdings of the Board of Review substantiate this conclusion (CM 210985, Bonner et al; CM 216904, Frankie). The failure of the defense to object to Schantz's oral testimony concerning accused's statements to him was a waiver ofirregularity.	No
- 20 -
prejudice to the rights of accused, hor/ever, results because Prosecution1s Exhibit D (accused*s written confession), admitted in evidence, substantially incorporates accused's statement to Schantz as reported by the latter in his testimony.
(h)	The record conclusively shows that the confession (Prosecu-
tion's Exhibit D) was given by accused freely and voluntarily, and that at the time he first talked with Schantz and at the time he signed the confession he was free from restraint or compulsion or the effects of promises of leniency, and that he had been carefully warned of rights to remain silent. The corpus delicti had been proved when the confession was admitted (CM 202213, Mallon)«	The admission of the confession in
evidence was free from error (CM ETO 72, Jacobs and Farley: CM ETO 397, Shaffer: CM ETO 506, Bryson: CM ETO 559, Mon salve).
(i)	A bullet was produced in court and specifically identified as being the projectile which was found at about 6:00 p.m, on the evening of the homicide, by Lieutenant Pikulin, It was dug from a place in the floor 8 or 9 feet from the pool of blood which had flowed from deceased's body after being shot. It was admitted in evidence as "Prosecution's Exhibit E" over accused's objection (PJ.35,137), Its admission in evidence was free from error (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, sec.116, p»15l» footnote 14; 20 Am. Jur. Evidence, sec.718, p.60l). Prosecution's Exhibit E was, by stipulation of counsel, withdrawn from evidence (R169)* This is an improper practice in view of the fact that the evidence was not "bulky" (Appen.6, p.269, MCM 1928).
10.	At the trial defense counsel disclaimed the defense of insanity (R173). Defense Exhibit A, "Report of Psychiatric Examination of Maxwell, Leslie (NLl), Private, ASH 33084827"dated 19 March 1943 was introduced in evidence for the purpose of showing accused's "mental age" (R139)• The position of the defense is disclosed by the following colloquy:
"Law Member:
Defense : Law Member: Defense :
(to Defense). Are you now raising the issue of the mental status of accused?
Of his mental age, yes.
Of his what?
Of his mental status, yes, I am. Bearing on the matter of intention I want to show what his mental age is, and I have h6re a report from the 36th General Hospital stating thati and there is also another one from the 298th General Hospital." (R139).
The argument of defense counsel with respect to this defense was as follows
(272)
"Then go just one dtep further* Joking and laughing is bad enough, but walking'over and kicking himi Is it possible that any normal person could do such a thing? There can only be one explanation. The series of facts in connection with this man’s life, the physical facts that I have brought out for you, have simply warped his judgment, perhaps not enough that I can claim he is insanej I do not take that pdsitibn, but sill the different things that have happened to him have warped his judgment, have warped his mind. Little things inpress him with unusual importance. You have the testimony of one of the two witnesses who saw the gun actually fired. Fred Howard(testified that the gun was actually pointed down at Boon’s feet at the time, that it was not pointed at him at all, that the gun was discharged and flew back; the recoil brought it back.
Now if Maxwell intended to kill Boon because he owed him 10s., why would he have loaned him L2 the very day of the shooting?
He loaned him L2. That'is‘right in the statement you have in evidence from Sergeant Schantz. I say to you that this man is abnormal • It has been brought out by medical testimony that he is a moron, and I do not think you can possibly hold him to the same high standard of conduct that you can’a normal person. That, gentlemen, is the case for the accused." (R173)»
The Lknual for Court s-I.hrtial has defined mental responsibility and has applied the rule as to reasonable doubt within the field of military justice as follows:
"The rule as to reasonable doubt extends to every element of the offense, -a*-**, Prima facie proof of an element of an offense does not preclude the existence of a reasonable doubt with respectyto such element. The court may decide, for instance, that the prima facie evidence presented does not outweigh the presumption of innocence.
Ifhere a reasonable doubt exists as to the mental responsibility of an accused for an offense charged, the accused can not legally
- 22 -
i
(273)
be convicted of that offense, A person is not mentally responsible foj an offense unless he v/as at the time so/free from mental defect, disease, or derangement as to be able concerning the particular acts charged both to distinguish right from wrong and to adhere to the right,” (I.K3LI 1928, par,78a, p.63).
The above definition of insanity is based on the rule which has been approved by the United States Supreme Court (Davis v. United States, 160 U.S, 469, 40 L. Ed., 499j Mutual Life'Ins, Co. v. Terry, 82 U.S. 580,
21 L. Ed,, 236; Davis v. United States, 165 U.S. 373, 41 L. Ed., 750;
Hotema v; United States, 186 U.S. 413, 46 L, Ed., 1225)*
The evidence in this case established beyond all reasonable doubt that accused was sane at the time of the homicide and at the time of trial. •'Prosecution* s Exhibit F" and "Defense Exhibit A” clearly proved that accused was not suffering under such mental derangement as to constitute^! psychotic or insane subject at the time of the homicide and that he was legally responsible for his acts. His demeanor and mental processes upon his examination are indeed self-revealing as to the status of his mental health at time of his trial. They bespeak an ability to defend himself. The court could not have reasonably reached any other conclusion than it did under the evidence in this case (CM 209548, Jones)The question of accused's legal sanity was essentially one of fact for the court and since its findings are supported by competent, substantial evidence they will not be disturbed by the Board of Review on appellate review (CM 193543 (1930), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1$40, sec.395(3&)'; p.227; CM 125265 (1918), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, sec,395(36), p.225; 01.12^5^37 (1942), Bui'. TJAG., Dec.1942, Vol.l, No.7, p.360; CM 212505. Tipton; CM 223336, (1942), Bui. TJAG,, Aug. 1942, Vol.l, No.3, p.162).
The legal responsibility of accused for the homicide being established, the fact that he was a "high level moron" is no defense.
"Criminal responsibility does not depend upon the mental age of the defendant nor upon the question whether the mind of the prisoner is above or below that of the ideal or of the average or of' the normal man, but upon the question, whether the defendant knows the difference between right and wrong, can understand the relation which he bears to others and which others bear to him, and has knowledge of the nature of his act so as to be able to perceive its true character and consequence
23 -
(274)
**: ?-»i n I
-v.tr!lil*.r, i I/'.!.
to himself and to others." (Commonwealth v. Trippi, 268 Mass. 237; 167 N.E. 354,
356).
"The responsibility of an adult charged with, the commission of crime is not to be measur- • ed by a comparison of his mental ability with that of an infant of twelve years, or in any other way, the true test being whether
'he appreciated the nature and quality of his act, and that it was wrong, and if he was responsible without regard to other mental . deficiencies," (State v. Schilling, 95 N.J,
Law 145, 112 Atlantic 400).
(See also 22 C.J.S., sec.58, p.122; 16 C.J. sec,74, p.99; Nelson v. State, 43 Texas Crim, Rep. 553, 67 S.W. 320; People v. Moran 2491I.Y. 179, 163 N.E, 553).
11.	On the merits, there is presented for consideration but one question and that is whether or not the evidence is legally sufficient to sustain the finding that accused was guilty of murder.
Neither by direct evidence nor by inference is there any proof that at the time of the homicide, the accused and deceased were embroiled in "mutual combat" - in fact the idea is negatived by accused's own testimony,
"He (deceased) had his hands in his pockets, and kept on walking towards me. So I steps back, and as I steps back one of the soldiers bumped into me anijL the rifle went off, I did not intend to take that boy's life."(R148).
"He (deceased) was coming towards me, and I had the rifle pointed down, and' when 1 backed into the soldier - that was when the rifle went off and Boon fell". (R152),
Therefore, questions indigenous of "mutual combat" coincident with the homicide are eliminated from consideration.
Likewise, accused's own admissions obviate the question of self-
defense:
"Q. Had you ever had any fights with Boon?
A. No, sir.
Q. Did you have any reason to believe that he would want to hurt you?
24 **
(275)
A. No, Sir. Tfe just had a little misunderstanding over that money," (R154-)*
"Q. Why did you put that bullet in that rifle? .
A. Because Boon had drawn a razor on me, sir*
Q. When you put that bullet in there, were yop going to shoo't him?
A. No, sir, not unless’ he tried to hurt me with that razor.
Q. He did not try to hurt you with it, though, did 'he?
A. He kept walking towards me with his hands in his pockets. I asked him for my money.
He did not say nothing. He kept walking towards me. When I backed back that was when the rifle went off." (R151).
Murder is legally defined:
"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought, •Unlawful* means without legal justification or excuse **■**.
Among the lesser offenses which may be included in a particular charge of murder are manslaughter, certain forms of assault and an attempt to commit murder. **•**" (MCM», sec.148, p.162).
"Murder, as defined at common law, and by statutes simply declaratory thereof, consists in the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought." (29 C.J., sec.59, p.1083).
"Murder, at common law, is the unlawful killing, by a person of sound memory and discretion, of any reasonable creature in being and under the peace of the State, with malice aforethought, either express or implied." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents (2nd Ed) p.672)).
The important element of murder, to wit, "malice aforethought" has been analysed by authorities as follows:
"The term malice, as.ordinarily employed in criminal law, is a strictly legal term, meaning not personal spite-or hostility but simply the wrongful intent essential to the commission of crime. When used, however, in connection with the word 'aforethought* or 'prepense', in defining the particular crime of murder, it
25 -
(276)
r^|Tt X f
signifies the same evil intent, as the result of a determined purpose, premeditation, deliberation, or tirooding, and therefore as' indicating, in the view of the law, a malignant or depraved nature, or, as the early writer,
Foster, has expressed it, ’a heart regardless of social duty, and fatally bent upon mischief1.
The deliberate purpose need not have been long entertained; it is sufficient if it exist at the moment of the act. Malice aforethought is . " either ‘express' or 'implied'; express, where the intent, - as manifested by previous enmity, threats, the absence of any or of stifficient provocation, etc,- is to take the life of the particular person killed, or, since a specific purpose to kill is hot essential to’constitute murder, to inflict upon him some excessive bodily injury which my naturally result in death:’ implied, where the intent'is to commit a felonious or unlawful act but not to kill or injure the particular person ***•» (Ifihthrop* s Military Law & Precedents (2nd Ed), p,672-3),
"Malice or malice aforethought is the element which distinguishes murder at common law and, commonly, under the statutes defining murder,
'	from	other	grades of homicides, ***" (29 C.J,,
sec,60, p,1084)»
The distinction between murder and voluntary manslaughter is stated as follows r
"Manslaughter is distinguished from murder by the absence of deliberation and malice aforethought", (l Wharton*s Criminal Law, sec,423»
p.640)*
"Manslaughter is unlawful homicide without malice aforethought and is either voluntary or involuntary", (LELI., sec,149fl, p.165).
"At common law a killing ensuing from sudden transport of passion or heat of blood, if upon sudden combat, was also manslaughter, and the statutory definition of voluntary manslaughter has in some jurisdictions been made expressly to include a killing without malice in a sudden affray. However, a sudden
- 26 -
mntzm.L
(277)
combat is ordinarily considered upon the same footing as other provocations operating to create such passion as temporarily to unseat the judgment". (29 Corpus Juris, sec.115,
p.1128).
"The proof of homicide, as necessarily involving malice, must show the JTacts under which the killing was effected, and from the whole facts and circumstances surrounding the killing the jury infers malice or its absence.
Malice in connection with the 'crime of killing is but another name for a certain condition of a man*s heart or mind, and as no one can look into the heart or mind of another, the only way to decide upon its condition at the time of a killing is to infer it from the surrounding facts and that inference is one of fact for"a jury. The presence or absence of this malice or mental condition marks the boundary which separates the two crimes of murder and manslaughter". (Stevenson v.’United States,
162 U.S. 313,320; 40 L. Ed„ 980,983) (Cft Jerry Wallace v. United States, 162 U.S. 466,
40 L. Ed., 1039j John Brown v. United States,
159 U.S. 100, 40 L. Ed., 90).
The evidence proves without contradiction (a) that accused and deceased had engaged in a dice game for a considerable period of the day prior to the homicide; (b) that the game was recessed for about two hours during which time the two soldiers consumed a substantial amount of intoxicating beverages at a neighboring public house; (c) that upon a resumption of the game differences arose between them as to a certain bet and deceased possessed himself of five shillings claimed by accused; (d) that the game ceased, but accused persistently demanded the money from the deceased which demands were ignored by deceased, who left the squad room for a short period; (e) that during deceased's absence from the squad room accused took a fellow-soldier's rifle and loaded it with a live cartridge which had previously come into his possession, and sat with the gun on his knees awaiting deceased's return; (f) that upon deceased's return to the squad room he approached accused with his hands in his pockets, unarmed and'when within seven or eight feet of accused the latter discharged the rifle directly at deceased inflicting a mortal wound; (g) that after the shooting accused kicked the deceased as he lay helpless on the floor, applied obscene and profane epithets to him, and-attempted to re-load the rifle with a live cartridge announcing his intention to "finish him off".
The facts thus disclosed form a substantial basis for the court's finding that accused was guilty of murder. Implicit in the finding is
- 27 -
(278)
that accused killed deceased with malice aforethought. It is fully justified. The actions of accused prior to the shooting exhibit a cold, calculated determination to kill or inflict serious bodily harm on-deceased. His conduct immediately following the fatal shooting shows that blood-lust possessed him. The evidence beyond all peradventure establishes the fact that accused with respect to deceased at least intended Hto inflict upon him some: excessive bodily injury which may naturally result in death”. Such intent constitutes '‘malice aforethought" •	There is also substantial
evidence that supports the conclusion ‘that accused acted with express malice and premeditation. His prior threat to "get" accused, his deliberate taking of a rifle over the protests of the owner, loading it and cooler awaiting deceased^s return to the squad room and then shooting him as he approached with hands in pockets, not only shows that actual malice and vindictiveness were harbored byaccused, but conpletely expels all idea that he acted tinder such anger and heat of passion as to reduce the homicide from murder to manslaughter. The issue as to the degree of accused's intoxication was one of fact for exclusive determination by the court. The homicide was -ruthless, vicious, deliberate and without cause or excuse and in the opinion of the Board of Review the crime of murder was proved beyond all reasonable doubt (CM 221426, Shannon: CM ETO 268, Ricks: CM ETO 422, Green: CM ETO 4-38, Smith). The penalty for murder i3 death or life-imprisonment as the court-martial may direct (&?*92). The‘sentence is legal (CM ETO 292, Mickles).
12.	Accused was 23 years 9 months of age at the time Of the commission of the offense. He‘was inducted-at Fort‘Meade, Maryland, on 26 June 1941' for the duration of the war plus six months.
13.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. Ho errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the-findings of guilty, and the sentence.
Judge Advocate
28
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. g ^ g£p 1943 TO* Commanding General, ETOIBA, U.S. Army, APO 887.
1* In the case of Private LESLIE (NMI) MAXWELL (33084827), 1965th . Quartermaster Company Trk, (Avn), attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Binder the provisions of Article of War 50^-,. you now > have authority to order the execution of the sentence*
2. The evidence before the court and the examination of the accused at his trial fully justifies the conclusion that accused was sane on the date of the commission of the offense and at the time of trial. I ami informed by documents attached to the record of trial and by Colonel Ed. C. Betts, Theater Judge Advocate (telephonic conversation of 13 Sep 1943) that subsequent to date of sentence, 19 May 1943, accused has been under observation and examination for the purpose of determining his mental condition and that as a result of such study there has been submitted to you, subsequent to the receipt of the record of trial by this office, a report of a medical board expressing the opinion that accused is now insane. It has been indicated to# me that, by reason of such situation, you will desire to take appropriate action commuting the sentence of death to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and imprisonment for life. Such action is authorized and the record of trial is legally sufficient to support such commuted sentence* The Federal Penitentiary at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, should be designated as the place of confinement. I transmit herewith the record of trial*
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the record of trial, the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 739. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 739)*
Brigadier General, United States Arny, Assistant Judge Advocate General*
1 Inclr
Record ef Trial*
(Original action of convening authority modified to the extent of commuting the death sentence to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures, and confinement for life. Sentence as thus commuted ordered executed. GCMO 19, ETO, 2 Oct 1943)

#(281)
