#(325)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APp 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1432
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private DONALD R.	GOOD	)
(13053072), Company	G,	)
18th Infantry.	)
)
-1 MAR 1944
1ST INFANTKI DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Dorchester, Dorset, England, 21 January 1944. Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for _ life. Eastern Branch, United States, Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RHER, VAN BENSCHOTEir and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:* Violation of the 58th Article of War.
Specification:	In that Private Donald R. Good,
Company G, 18th Infantry did, in the vicinity of Oued Zarga, Tunisia, on or about April 22,
1943, desert the service of the United States by absenting himself from his organization with intent to avoid hazardous duty, to wit: combat with enemy forces, and did remain absent in desertion until he .was apprehended at Algiers, Algeria, on or about September 23,
1-943. .	-
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be shot to death with musketry. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 1st Infantry Division, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations confirmed the sentence but commuted it to dishonorable discharge from the service, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to
- 1 -
become due and confinement at hard labor for the term of the natural life of the accused, d esignated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York as the place .of confinement and withheld the order directing execution of the sentence pursuant to Article of War 50£.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution is substantially as follows:
Private First Class James G. Gilmore, Company G, 18th Infantry, testified that about 22 April 1913 both he and accused were battalion ( runners. They loaded trucks preparing to move to new area and on arrival at destination unloaded the trucks and placed the rolls in a company pile (E8,9). Gilmore reported to the Company Commander and informed him that he and accused were going to the battalion area as runners. On his return he did not see accused so believed he had proceeded to the battalion. When he arrived at the battalion area he made many inquiries as to accused but he was not there (R6). ' The next day Gilmore returned .to the company and inquired for Good, whose absence meant "double work" for him (R7). The company was "moving up" (R8) to relieve British troops (R9) and "we knew that we were going into an attack" (R8). Gilmoreb idea was that the enemy was two miles or less away. At a cojnpany formation Captain Jeffrey (Gordon A.-Jeffrey, commanding Company G, 18th Infantry) informed the company' that it was soon going into an attack (R9).
First Sergeant Joseph McGarrigle, Company G, 18th Infantry, testified that about 20 April 1913 the company "moved up" by truck to the vicinity of Oued Zarga, Tunisia. Accused was a member of the company and moved with it* On the 21 April accused was reported to him as absent and on 22‘April he dropped accused in his Morning Report as missing in action. He did not see accused again until he reported "here at APO No.l U.S. Army" (Rll).
The general opinion was that the company was moving up to relieve the British who were holding the line (R12) and were in the area when relieved.
It was common knowledge that the. company was. going into cqmbat and it saw the British moying out. It was known to the men that the Company Commander had gone, forward on. a reconnaissance (R13) to establish front lines and find the position, the company was to occupy (Rll). *	.	_	.
Captaip Jeffrey testified that on 20 April 1913, Company G, as part of the 18th Infantry, was moving up from the southern part to the northern part of Tunisia, where the British were being relieved,because of heavy casualties so he believed (R15). On 20th April, he left the company with the battalion commander In order to make reconnaissance of the British lines in order to determine the placement of his company (R15). He had previously assembled the company one morning and informed the men that they were going soon into combat. He could not definitely state whether accused was present on this occasion (R20). Accused was a company runner to the battalion and it was reported to him that accused was missing. A search whs made both in the company and in'the battalion and he could not be located (R15). Witness identified a duly authenticated extract copy of the
(327)
Morning Report of Company G, 18th Infantry, for 27 December 194-3 which was received in evidence without objection as Pros.Ex."An. . It-read in part as follows:	"Dec 27/43:	13053072	Good	Pvt To correct remark of Apr 23/43
which reads Duty to MIA sn Apr 22/43 as erroneously made should read Duty to AWOL sn.22 Apr/43" (R16; Pros.Ex."A"). On 28 November 1943 accused made a sworn statement to him sifter he had first duly warned accused, of his rights in regard thereto, which statement wa3 typed by the first sergeant as.accused dictated it (R17). The statement was received in evidence as Pros.Ex."B" and was read to the court. In pertinent part it is as follows:
"	. APO 1, U.S.Army,
28 November, 1943. ***********************
I Private Donald R. Good, ran away from ray company during unloading of trucks in the vicinity of Oued Zarga, northwest of Beja. I unloaded with the Company and then got back on the truck and went back with the trucks to the Quartermaster Battalion at Tebessa, staying with the Military Railway Section at Tebessa . for about three weeks. I then went to Constantine, where there were quite a number .of men on limited service. I passed myself off as a soldier on limited service to a Quartermaster Master Sergeant and after the Master Sergeant had found out my true status and was ready to turn me over to Military Authorities, I left and went to a town c ailed Athmina, where a British Hospital was located. I met a British Army Nurse who did not know my status and who made me acquainted with a few British Officers. I remained at this town and then for about two months I stayed with some French Soldiers in a farmhouse -until I decided where to go. I then went to Algiers with a convoy and was arrested in Algiers by the' MBS Military Police. I remained under guard in the MBS Stockade in Algiers for about one month and fifteen days, was transferred under guard to Bizerte to a stockade at that place for about one week, being again transferred to the IBS Army Military Prison in Palermo Sicily, staying there for about two and one half weeks. We were released under guard being turned over to the Commanding Officer, 1st Divisional Provisional Company in Sicily which was attached to the . 82nd Reconnaissance 2nd Armored Division. I arrived at this camp joining Company G, 18th Infantry at 0525 Sunday Morning November 28,
19^3,	s/	Donald	R.	Good
t/ DONALD R. GOOD,13053072 Pvt Co G, 18th Infantry H
3
(R18-19; Pros.Ex."B"). Jeffrey saw accused for the first time after his absence on 28 November 1943 (R20), He stated that accused did not have permission to be absent at ^ny time between 22 April 1943 and 23 September 1943 (R23).
The accused, after conferring with his counsel, announced in open court that he would agree to a stipulation proposed by the prosecution to the effect "that the accused returned to military control on or about the 23rd of September, 1943 in Algiers, Algeria" (R2l).
4.	The defense presented no testimony and accused elected to remain
silent (R23).	'	.
5.	Under the Specification in this case the proof must show:
"(a) That the accused absented himself without leave, * * * * from his * * * * organization * * * * as alleged; (b) that he intended, at the time of absenting himself or at some time during his absence, to * *
* * * avoid hazardous duty * * * * * as alleged; (c) that his absence was of a duration and was terminated as alleged; and
(d)	that the desertion was committed under the circumstances alleged" (Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par.130a, p.143).
Accused was a runner between his company and the battalion and as such it may properly be inferred that he would learn of all matters that were of common knowledge in the organization. The fact that it was moving up to relieve the British and that it was going into the attack was generally known to the men. He had assisted in unloading the trucks which carried the mens* rolls and had placed them in a company pile as was usual when going into an attack. The enemy was possibly less than two miles away. Accused stated in his sworn statement that he ran away from the company at this time. He does not deny that he left his organization for the purpose of avoiding combat with the enemy.
This evidence considered in its entirety is of such substantial character as to support the court's findings that accused was-informed and that he knew his company was on 22 April 1943 about to engage in front line combat against the eneny, i.e. hazardous duty and that with such knowledge he deliberately "ran away" from it (CM ETO 564, Neville). On this issue a question of fact was -involved. Inasmuch as there is substantial evidence to support the findings, the Board of Review on appellate review will not disturb the same (CM ETO 106, Orbon: CM ETO 132,
Kelly and Hyde: CM ETO 895, Davis et al, par.10(b), p.39).
Captain Jeffrey, the company commander, is specific in his testimony that his unit on 20-22 April 1943 was moving up to the front to relieve a certain British unit which he believed had suffered heavy
(329)
casualties. During the movement he assembled the company and informed it of immediate prospective combat. On' 20 April he and the battalion commander made a reconnaissance of the British lines in order to determine placement for his company. Gilmore declared that the company was moving up to relieve "British troops". McGarrigle, stated that the company was moving towards enemy lines and that he knew that the company was shortly going into combat. From this evidence the only logical inference to be drawn is that on or about the 22 April 19A3 accused’s company "was under orders or anticipated orders involving *** hazardous duty" (Manual for Courts-Martial 1921, par.409, p.344). Therefore, this necessary element of the offense was adequately proved (CM ETO 455, Njgg).
6.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 23 years of age. He was inducted at Reading, Pennsylvania, on 30 January 1942. He had no prior service.
7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the
person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as commuted. The punishment for desertion committed in time of war is death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct (AW 58).	Confinement in a United
States Disciplinary Barracks is authorized (AW 42).
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)
Judge Advocate
" 5- *■
1st Ind,
-1 MAR 1944
TO: Commanding
(330)
Y/D, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.
General, ETOUSA, APO 387, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private DONALD R. GOOD (13053072), Company G, 18th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50g-, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence,
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1A32. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:
I(ETO 1432).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence as previously commuted ordered executed. GCMO U, ETO, 7 Mar 19A4)
#(331)
