#(393)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General •with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1096
UNITED STATES	)
)
.	v.	)
)
Private DAVID L. STRINGER	)
(34154267), Provisional Head-	)
quarters and Headquarters	)
Squadron, 2915th Combat Crew	)
Replacement Center Group (Bomb). )
11- FED 1944
VIII AIR FORCE COMPOSITE COMMAND Trial by G.C.M., convened at Army Air Force Station 231 > APO 639,
12 November 1943• Sentences Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for four years. 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U.S.Army.
OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the • European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. ' The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its' opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charge and specifications
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	64th	Article	of War.
Specifications In that Private David L. Stringer,
Provisional Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron,
2915th Combat Crew Replacement Center Group (Bomb),
having received a lawful command from Captain Kenneth
K.	Wallick, Air Corps, his superior officer, to perform
the duties of Mess Sergeant, did, at Army Air Forces
Station 238, APO 639> on or about 21 October, 1943>
wilfully disobey the same.
1
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably.discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due
-1-
fiUNFIDENTIAL
(394)
or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for fbur years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement and designated the Disciplinary Training Center No.2912 as the place of confinement.
The result of trial wqs promulgated in General Court-Martial Orders No. lf>, Headquarters, VIII Air Force Composite Command, Station 231,
APO 639, 20 November 19U3*
3* The evidence for the prosecution shows, in substance, that about three weeks prior to 21 October 19U3, General Hill had made an inspection of the kitchen at Arrny Air Force Station 238, and told a Sergeant Flinn, the commanding officer of the station. Captain IVallick, and the mess sergeant, that the kitchen -was "in a sad mess" and that if conditions did not improve within a few weeks the captain was to reduce Sergeant Flinn and assign someone more capable (R 7-8, 12). About 11 A.M. 21 October, Sergeant Flinn was relieved as mess sergeant and about 11:30 A.M. that day Captain Wallick instructed the mess officer to put accused "on orders as mess sergeant". At that time he was a sergeant and was working in the kitchen as a cook. He was supposed to report that day as mess sergeant for the noon meal (R 7, 11,£U). As the result of certain information Captain Y/allick later ordered the mess officer to have accused report to him. When he did report at.2 PiM. 21 October the captain told him he would "have to be mess sergeant", that he was the highest ranking non-commissioned officer qualified for the position and that "we didn't have anyone else". He asked him why he did not want to take that-responsibility Accused replied that he "wouldn't take the job tinder that set-up" referring presumably to the•"disorganization of the mess", and that "he didn't like the deal that Sergeant Flinn got." Captain Wallick told him that it was his responsibility to take any job assigned, that the job had to be done, and that in both his opinion and that of the mess officer he was capable of holding the position. He was further told that there was a possible promotion if he did good work. The captain informed him that a man who could not accept responsibility could not remain • a non-commissioned officer on that post. Accused replifed that he had been made a sergeant by a responsible officer and that he thought he had deserved it. The captain told him that he should take the job and do it as well as he could. He sent him to see a Captain Bartos who "understood the mess conditions and I thought he.might be able to induce the man to take the job" and show him that it could be done (R 7-9,ll,U6-U7).
Accused went to see Captain Joseph A. Bartos, medical officer at Station 238, who had requested that accused be sent to him "to discuss the problems of the mess from a medical standpoint" (R 13). Captain Bartos testified that "Problems in the mess were inadequate personnel and some of these personnel not doing their jobs satisfactorily". The job as mess sergeant would be a "tough" one, and the captain himself "probably would have hesitated to accept it". In his opinion adequate personnel for the mess were not being supplied. During their discussion of the mess problems accused told Captain Bartos that he did not want to be mess sergeant because when the Commanding General visited the mess hall he wanted to know why there
CONFIDENTIAL
Confidential
(395)
•was not adequate personnel, and the former commanding officer of the base had replied that adequate personnel urere available. Accused stated that "if the Commanding Officer of. the base did not back the enlisted men any more than that he did not want the job in the mess hall" (R li|-lf>).
About $ P.M. accused returned to see Captain ¥allick and said that his mind was made up, that his final answer was that he would not take the job as mess sergeant (R 9>k7,5>1)» The captain asked accused to "put himself in my position." Accused said "I would make him a private" (R kh 51). When accused was asked if he knew what refusing an assignment mould mean, he replied "Yes, court-martial" (R 9,12,l;7,!?2). Captain Yifallick did not tell him what the charges would be.if he were tried (R.55).
Accused was not discourteous or disrespectful (R 10). He did not report to the mess hall and was placed under arrest later that afternoon. He was not immediately put under arrest because Captain ViTallick could not conceive that he would refuse'the assignment and it took the Captain "a while to make up his mind." It was up to accused to decide and the captain expected he would return and say "I«m sorry" (R 10-11,k9,52-53). About LOO-500 men were fed in the mess. Although accused had. been assured of all cooperation possible, he was not promised additional cooks or"K.P.'s" because no cooks were available (R 50-51,S3)•
Captain Wallick further testified that at no time had he given accused a direct order to assume the job as mess sergeant (R U6,U?,S1) but that it was clearly understood that he was to be mess sergeant (R l;6,Sl).
"Q:	Do	you think the accused was offered an alternative of
being busted instead of taking the job as mess sergeant?
A:	Yes,	I would say he was because I informed him that
unless he accepted responsibility he would have to be a private (R 10).
**■***#■
Q: Were you trying to persuade the accused to take the job rather than order him to take it?
A:	I don’t see the-difference.
Q:	(repeated)
- A:	'Ho,	I would not say I was.
Q: And yet, you asked him to take it, explaining the job and the possibilities of promotion?
A: I didn't ask him. I told him he was to be mess sergeant.
I told him he would have to be. (R 10-11).	#	*	•#■	*
. Q:	Did	you indicate anything which might lead him to
believe that the reduction to private was the alternative to not taking the job?
Ai There wasn't any alternative about it. It was the idea
-	1 of taking the thing or because of his attitude in not
wanting to take the responsibility, and of course, court-martial if he didn't report to work.	The	last	i
time he left his final answer was that he would not take' the job and would rather be court-martialled than take it.
In my mind, he was a private pending court-martial (R I4.8).
-3-
C0NFIDENT1AL
If
CONFIDENTIAL
(396)
.###**■
Qx Y/hy, then, did you reduce him from sergeant • to private?
Ax Because he didn't want to accept the responsibility of being a sergeant in refusing this assignment.
Q: In view of that you were going to- try the man and in ^addition you took it upon yourself to punish the man?
A: In my mind it is not the same offense (R U9). '«•***'*■
Qx What did you tell the accused?
Ax It wasn't a matter of choice. He was supposed to be mess sergeant. I told him that if he didn't he would have to be reduced. It wasn't the idea of saying you can take either one.
Qx Wasn't that the general trend of the conversation?
Ax It was that he would have to be reduced.
Q* That would be the end of it?
Ax That was only half of it. He would be reduced and then court-martialled." (R 51-32).
U. For the defense. Staff Sergeant George E. Henson of accused's organization, testified that on 21 October 19U3 he was on duty at the service club where his function was to *show the fellows a good time"•
He had been trained to be a cook and mess sergeant and had the highest average of his class at school. He was not being used as a mess sergeant on 21 October (R 20-21). Staff Sergeant Arthur W. Hill, also of accused!s organization, testified that he had attended the cooks' and bakers' school at Canp Shelby, Mississippi, where he had "pretty good grades", and was made first cook. He had been a mess sergeant for two and a half years but on 21 October 1?U3 was duty sergeant in the squadron. His work consisted of general duty and."picking up.butts in the road".
He was supposed to have a job in the mess hall.but it had not opened at that time (R 22-23). '
First Sergeant Harold Mansky of accused's organization had known accused about two months and was of the opinion that he was an e xcel lent soldier (R 2U)•
Recalled as a witness for the defense. Captain ¥allick testified that as commanding officer of Station 238 his duty was to see that the men were housed, clothed, and fed (R 17). He had.sent accused to see Captain Rartos because the latter knew the difficulties concerning the messing situation and had a good idea how to correct them. ' He thought that Captain Bartos could show accused the point of taking the position, how to do the work, and would prove to him that it was not too big an undertaking (r 18).
Accused testified that on 21 October, Lieutenant Jacobs, the mess officer, told him that the mess sergeant had been relieved and that they had decided accused was the man for the job. Accused was then first cook
-U-
COHFIDLNTIKL
CONFIDENTIAL
(397)
and a sergeant. He replied that he did not think he -was the man for the job, that other men could operate the mess better and that he would rather they got someone else. They discussed mess problems and the lieutenant said he would go to headquarters to see what he could do about getting another man, but that accused'might have the job forced on him (R 26,30-31,^2). Accused went to his barracks and was later told to report to Captain Yfallick who informed him that the mess sergeant had been relieved, that they believed accused was the man for the job and had decided that he was to be mess sergeant (R 26, 31,3L,39). The captain discussed the faults of the former mess sergeant^ and asked if he could improve them. Accused replied that he did not think so, that they needed more cooks and equipment, that he was not the man for the job and could see no use in starting when he could not hold the position. Captain:Wallick did not agree nor did he promise extra cooks, "K.P.1s" or equipment. He asked accused if he wanted to keep his stripes. He replied that he did and was asked how long he had been a sergeant. He said for about a year and believed he deserved the promotion when it was made. The captain thens aid "'Tfe have decided you are to be mess sergeant and think you are the man for the job.
There must be some other reason why you don't want to take this job. Don't you like this outfit?'" Accused replied that he could not say that he did, that he wanted a transfer and would have requested it sooner but did not think he would be successful. He was then ordered to report to Captain Bartos (R 26,31-32,3U,39-L0)•
He spent about an hour with Captain Bartos discussing mess problems and told the captain that he was not the man for the position and could see no use in starting when he could not hold the job. He said that he. would rather be relieved of his stripes and go on general duty.- Captain Bartos said that he would either be mess sergeant or walk out the door a private (R 26,35).'
■When he returned to Captain Y/allick's office, the latter said "I guess you have decided to take over as mess sergeant here". He replied "Not exactly". The captain said "Put yourself in my place; what would you do if you had a man and he didn't want to be mess sergeant?" Accused replied "I would figure he didn't want the responsibility and I would break him and put him t o general duty in the outfit", whereupon Captain Wallick said that he would court-martial and "break" accused and that he would "walk out the door a private". Accused left, went to his barracks and about an hour later was placed under arrest-and taken to the guard house (R 27,29,32-33,36,39-Ll).
He further testified that at no time had Captain Wallick given him a direct order (R 29,33), nor had he (accused) definitely stated at any time that he would not be a mess sergeant and that his decision was final (R 32-3k,38). There was no definite understanding or anything final about the matter (R 38,1+3). Accused did not think that he had disobeyed a direct order, but that he had a choice of being mess sergeant or being "busted to private and put on general duty" (R 27,29-30, 3L-35,37,L3-LL). Tdhen he finally left Captain Yfellick's office he
CONFIDENTIAL
(398)
believed that he would be made a private anrf placed on general duty.
He thought that he could not be reduced without a court-martial proceeding tinless the basis for the reduction was inefficiency, and that he would be court-martialed because he preferred to be a private rather than a mess sergeant (R.29t-30,33-3L,36-39,Ul-LL)* He would have gone back to cook on his next shift if he had not been placed under arrest.
He had been on duty from lls30 A.M. to about 11 P.M., 20 October, and from 3 A.M. to ls30 P.M., 21 October. He was on duty when called to Captain Wallick' s office, and had been on duty about 2h hours with but a four-hour rest (R.2?). He had been "pulling a shift" with about 700 men to feed, and was assisted by one cook with very little experience and a "K.P." who was also cooking. He was tired, sleepy and his mind was in a turmoil (R.26). He was classified as a cook and had never been classified as a mess sergeant. His classification card (W.D., A.G.O. Form No.20) was admitted in evidence over objection by the prosecution (r.23-29; Def.Ex.A.)'
5.	The question presented for consideration is whether accused received and willfully disobeyed the lawful command alleged.
"Mere instructions would not in general fulfill the definition of an order or ’command*, in the sense of the present Article; nor would a mere statement of his wishes and views by his superior, however pointedly impressed upon the inferior in his entering upon the duty" (Wintkrop1 s Military Law and Precedents, Reprint, p.f>7U). (Underscoring supplied).
"It is also agreed by military writers that the
' * command* contemplated by the article is an express and personal one, that is to say an order 1 of a specific character, addressed or given to the ■ accused in person" (Ibid; p.573) (Underscoring supplied).
"It is agreed by the authorities that the offense specified in this part of the Article is a disobedience of a positive and deliberate character.
* * * the disobedience must be willful and intentional" (Ibid; p.5>73).
"The willful disobedience contemplated is such as shows an intentional defiance of authority" (MCM,
1928, par,13U b, p.lL8).
Although Captain Wallick testified that he told accused he would "have to be' mess sergeant" he admittedly did not at any time give accused a direct order to assume the duty 0f mess sergeant. No order detailing
-6-
C0NFIDENT1M-
(399)
CONFIDENTIAL.
him had been issued. He informed him that he was the highest ranking non-commissioned officer available for the position and that they did not have anyone elsej that he should take the job and do as well as he could. There was a possible promotion if he did good work. He sent him to Captain Bartos who, he believed, would be able ’'to induce the man to take the job". Asked whether he had attempted to persuade accused to assume the duty rather than order him to do so. Captain YiTallick testified "I don't see the difference." vfhen accused returned to interview him a second time, the captain said that a man could not remain a non-commissioned officer on the post if he did not accept responsibility. He asked accused what he would do if he were in his position and accused replied that he would reduce such a soldier to the grade of private.
The captain informed him that he would have to be reduced. He did not immediately place him under arrest because he could not believe he would refuse the assignment and it took Captain Wallick "a while to make up his mind". He expected him to return and say he was "sorry". Although accused, in response to the captain's question said he realized it would mean a court-martial if he refused the assignment, there was no evidence to indicate that accused was given to understand that Captain Wallick was referring to his willful disobedience of a direct order to assume the duties of mess sergeant.
The captain did not say -what the charges would be and accused testified that he thought court-martial proceedings were necessary to accomplish a soldier's reduction in grade unless such reduction was made upon the basis of inefficiency.
Viewed in its entirety the record of trial fails to disclose, that accused was given "an order of a specific character". On the contrary the evidence shows that Captain Wallick had two discussions with accused during which he "pointedly impressed" upon him his "wishes and views" and attempted to persuade him to assime the duties of mess sergeant instead of giving him a definite, express order to assume such duties. The captain's testimony that accused "clearly understood" that he was to be mess sergeant was merely a conclusion by the witness, unsupported by the evidence (22 C.J. sec.5?2, p.li.97, footnote 16; 22 C.J. sec.603> P.5'11?, footnote 39; P*5>l6, footnote h2; Stephenson v. Atlantic Terra Cotta Co., 230 Fed. lli,20). Similarly, the evidence fails to show that accused was guilty of disobedience "of a positive and deliberate character" exhibiting "an intentional defiance of authority". The evidence submitted by the prosecution fuilly justified accused's stated belief that he actually had a choice of becoming mess sergeant or being "busted to private and put on general duty".
-7-
C0NFIDENT1AL
CONFIDENTIAL
Uoo)
£. For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
-8-
CONFIDEHTIAL
1st Ind.
IVD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA H FEB 1944 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S.Army.
1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 5oJ as amended by the act of 20 August 1937 (50 Stat. 72Uj 10 USC 1522) and as further amended by Public Law 693> 77th Congress, 1 August 19U2, is the record of trial in the case of Private DAVID
L.	STRINGER (3lil5U267), Provisional Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 2915th Combat Crew Replacement Center Group (Bomb).
2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings of guilty and the sentence be vacated and that all rights, privileges and property gf which accused may have been deprived by reason of such findings and sentence so vacated be restored.
3.	This accused was charged with a capital offense, the proof of which requires wilful disobedience of an order and an intentional defiance of authority. I find proof of neither element in the evidence. No order detailing accused as Mess Sergeant was issued and no command given that he assume the duties thereof. Over a period of 3j hours, the accused discussed with two captains their desire that he be Mess Sergeant and his disinclination to be. There was talk of reduction 'fbr/not assuming responsibility but none of disobedience of orders. The accused was not disrespectful. The facts in evidence show no basis for the serious charge of willful disobedience of orders, which is too often made without intelligent consideration.
k.	Inclosed is form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is draft GCMD for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the record of trial with required regies of GCMO.
Brigadier General, United States ’ Amy, •Assistant Judge Advocate General^...
3 Incls:
Incl 1. Record Of Trial. Incl 2. Form of Action. Incl Jb*Draft GCMO.
(Findings and sentence vacated. GCMO 12, ETO, 22 Feb 1944)
