#(271)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 14.02
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private JAMES W. WILLISON	) .
(15323481), 1142nd Military	)
Police Company (Avn). 381st	)
Bombardment Group (H).	)
26 FEB 1944
EIGHTH AIR FORCE.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 167, 8 December 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for life. The United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	92nd	Article	of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	JAMES	W. WILLISON,
1142nd Military Police Company (Aviation),
381st Bombardment Group (H; did, at Sandy Lane, Sudbury, West Suffolk, England, on or about 2230 horn's, 5 October 1943, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Mrs. Gladys Muriel Baker.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence of no previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged from the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for the term of his natural life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50^, 1
1
3.. The only question deserving consideration is whether the victim, Mrs. Baker, consented to the act of intercourse or whether it was committed by accused by force and violence against her will. This was>a question of fact within the exclusive province of the court. Inasmuch as the finding of non-consent by Mrs. Baker is-supported by competent, substantial evidence it will not be disturbed by the Board.of Review on appellate review (CM ETO 397, Shaffer; CM ETO 709, Laka3: CM ETO 832.-Waite; CM ETO 969, Davis; CM ETO 1202, Ramsey and Edwards).'
4.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 21 years of age. He enlisted at Fort Hayes, Ohio, 23 October 1942 for the duration plus six months. He had no prior service.
5.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. A sentence of either death "or life imprisonment Is mandatory upon the conviction of rape (AW 92).
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)
- 2 -
1st Ind
(273)
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.	1944	TO:	Commanding
General, Eighth Air Force, APO 634, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private JAMES W. WILLISON (15323481), 1142nd . Military Police Company (Avn), 381st Bombardment Group (H), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50y, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	On conviction of rape in violation of AW 92, the court could adjudge a sentence of death or life imprisonment - no other. They unanimously recommended reduction of the imprisonment to five years, indicating they would have given that sentence if within their power.
The C.G., ETOUSA has directed me to recommend clemency so that prisoners returned to the United States will have a reasonable, defensible sentence. I consider this sentence much too severe and recommend your further consideration.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1402.' For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1402).
Brigadier General, United States Army Assistant Judge Advocate General.
>
- 1 -

#(275)
