#(91)
ljU-itiUtiHilAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 531.
UNITED STATES v.
Private THADDEUS G. McLURKIN, (18015986), Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate).
3	JUL 1343
)	WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES
)	OF SUPPII, EUROPEAN THEATER OF
)	OPERATIONS.
)
)	Trial by G.C.M., convened at
)	Seaforth Barracks, Seaforth,
)	Lancashire, England, 9 May 1943.
)	Sentence: Dishonorable discharge,
)	total forfeitures and confinement
)	at hard labor for 20 years.
)	Penitentiary.
HOLDING of the BOARD CJF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification: In that Private Thaddeus G. EcLurkin, Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), did, at Aintree, Liverpool, Lancashire, England, on or about 1 March 1943, with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon Sergeant Allen E. Hiller and Private Cornelius F. O'Donnell, by willfully and feloniously striking the said Sergeant Allen E. Hiller, and Private Cornelius F. O'Donnell about the head, shoulders and body with his fists.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(92)
Cvi^liLSTiAL
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War*
Specification 1: In that Private Thaddeus G.
McLurkin, Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), did, at Aintree, Liverpool,
Lancashire, England, on or about 1 March 1943> wrongfully appear at a public dance, without his blouse.
Specification 2: In that Private Thaddeus G.
McLurkin, Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), did, at Aintree, Liverpool,
Lancashire, England, on or about 1 March 1943> drunk and disorderly, in uniform in a public place to wit, Aintree Institute Dance Ball.
Specification 3* In that Private Thaddeus G.
McLurkin, Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), did, at Aintree, Liverpool,
Lancashire, England, on or about 1 March 1943» wrongfully resist arrest by Sergeant Allen E.
Hiller, and Private Cornelius F. O'Donnell,
Military Policemen, then in the lawful execution of their office.
ADDITIONAL CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Thaddeus G.
McLurkin, Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), did, at Park Lane, Liverpool,
Lancashire, England, on or about 28 February 1943, with intent to commit a felony, viz: murder, commit an assault upon Private James
S.	Gordon, by willfully and feloniously striking the said Private James S. Gordon about the head, shoulders, and body with his fist and knife.
He pleaded guilty to Charge II-and the three Specifications thereunder* not guilty to Charge I, the Additional Charge and the Specification under each, and was found guilty of all charges and specifications except Specification 3, Charge II, of which he was found not guilty.
No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 20 years*
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 50k,
CONFIDENTIAL
3.	With respect to the Additional Charge and Specification, the evidence for the prosecution may be summarized as follows* The International Cafe is located at 133 Park Lane, Liverpool, England. Margaret Alice Comes-was manageress of the cafe on 28 February 1943 (R.ll). Lance Corporal James Stewart Gordon, a member of 277th Pioneer Company, British Amy, stationed at Sefton Park, Liverpool, entered the cafe at about 10:30 P.M. on the above mentioned date to secure his supper. He was known to Comes as a previous patron.
There were 12 or 14 American- colored soldiers in the cafe arguing among themselves and creating noise and confusion. It was evident that they had been drinking and were intoxicated. Accused had also been drinking and was standing when Gordon entered. Gordon took no notice of the colored soldiers and seated himself at a table with "a Norwegian and a girl" and ordered supper. Three of the colored soldiers and a white girl sat at a nearby table. The white girl was facing him. Accused was jumping about and kept kicking Gordon’s chair who moved it to avoid contact with accused. On looking around Gordon saw accused was armed with a knife and said to him: "Jou should put that knife away, Jack. If the police come you will get into trouble". Accused turned around to a companion - a sergeant, and said: "This white cunt has told me to put my knife away. I will cut his fucking head off". (R.l,4,8-9,11-12,18-20).	Gordon replied:
"There is no need for any of that". Accused’s knife had a blade about four or five inches long, and he was holding it in his right hand He was the only colored soldier who had a knife. Accused, who was on Gordon's left, made a dive at Gordon striking him in the neck with the knife and inflicting a superficial cut, being the deepest at the "wind-pipe". The cut left a scar about l£ inches in length. Gordon raised from his chair and struck accused knocking him down. As he fell his knife struck Gordon’s hand inflicting a slight cut'on the back of it* Seven or eight of accused's companions ^hen joined in the assault on Gordon, who fought back. He grabbed hold of a sergeant and exclaimed to him: "For God’s sake call your palls off.
I em only a soldier like yourself".(R.1-2,12,13,28-29)• The sergeant struck Gordon in the eye and said something about "yellow white bastards". Gordon fell to the floor and as he was falling he received a knock back of the ear. Accused joined the assault on Gordon, who became unconscious and remained in that condition for about ten minutes. When he regained consciousness he was lying on the stairs of the cafe, and the colored soldiers, including accused, were gone.
As they left one remarked: "There he is; let him die" (R.3,13*16,18,28)
Subsequent to the assault and while accused was engaged in washing an automobile at Seaforth Barracks, Gordon identified him as his assailant (R.5,7-8,14,26).	He was wearing the same coat as on
the night of the assault. Later Gordon picked out accused at an identification line^qp (R.5,7,14,18).	Comes accompanied by Gordon,
in April 1943 also identified accused as he was coming out of a barrack's door at Garstang. Whet he sow Comes he withdrew (R.14,22,
24).
- 3 -
,%NFinFNmi
239537
I
u
m
In addition to the knife wounds on his neck and hand, Gordon received bruises on his body and a black eye (R.8). He was not hospitalized, but treated his own wounds (R.5).
4.	The facts proved in support of the specifications of Charges I and II are uncontradicted and are as follov/s:
Sergeant Allen E. Hiller, 295th Military Police Company, and Private Cornelius F. O'Donnell, 234th Military Police Company were, on the night of 1 March 1943, on a roving motorized police patrol between the towns of Aintree and Maghull, England. They wore regulation uniforms with Military Police brassards, and were armed with *45 caliber pistols. A dance, which was attended by both male and female British civilians and colored American soldiers, was held on that evening at the Aintree Institute Hall* At about 10x10 p.m., the two military policemen, Hiller and O'Donnell, made a routine call at the dance hall (R.31,36-37)• At that time Hiller saw accused talking loudly with another colored soldier and they were pushing each other back and forth ana thereby attracting attention. Hiller intervened and told them to quiet down and behave themselves in a more orderly fashion, Accused was dressed in a field jacket in violation of orders (Prosecution's Exhibit E).
Hiller asked accused if it was customary for him to wear a field jacket in town to which accused made an untelligible reply. Hiller then turned to First Sergeant Cannon (accused's First Sergeant) who was standing near-by, and inquired if it were customary for his men to wear field jackets in town and asked why accused was not in a blouse with his 0.D, uniform. Cannon could make no explanation but said accused wouldbe dealt with when he returned to his organization, Hiller asked* accused his name and he replied it- was McLurkin. His breath smelled of alcohol and the appearance of his eyes and face and his emotions indicated he was under the influence of alcohol. Hiller again mentioned to McLurkin the matter of his uniform. McLurkin stepped close to Hiller and screamed: "A field jacket is part of our uniform. We wear it at all times". Not desiring to create a commotion on the dance floor Hiller decided to,remove accused therefrom. He took accused by his right arm and O'Donnell grasped him by his left arm and they attempted toi lead him away. Accused resisted. Hiller told accused; "I am only going to take you off the dance floor. I want to talk to you". Accused continued to resist. At this point, another colored soldier, later identified by Hiller as Jones, grasped accused's shoulder and attempted to wrench him away from the policemen. Jones said: "Where are you taking that boy?". He repeated his question several times and finally struck Hiller with his fist. Hiller let go of accused' s arm and struck at Jones. Accused broke loose from O'Donnell and with his fist struck Hiller and struck O'Donnell once. Thereafter Hiller did not see O'Donnell. Hiller struck at accused several times. Other colored soldiers intervened and Hiller became involved with four men whom he could identify (R.31-34,36-38). There were at least eight soldiers in
- 4 “
confidential
(95)
the group, In the fight that ensued Hiller received stab wounds and five superficial cuts on the hands and face* He' did not know whether accused had a weapon or whether or not accused stabbed him. He was hospitalized for five weeks. Accused not only struck Hiller at the commencement of the disorder but repeatedly'during the affray. The fight moved towards the center of the floor in front of the orchestra pit, Hiller knocked Jones down, McLurkin struck Hiller again with his fist, shouting* "Kill him, kill him", Hiller had been stabbed and had lost his pistol in the fight. In his efforts to escape from his assailants he moved towards the double doors at the end of the hall, during which time the soldiers*persisted in their attack,. Accused continued to shout* "Kill him", and followed Hiller down the stairs, but the latter made his way outside to a nearby theater (R.33-34.)*
Hiller positively identified accused as the man in the field jacket, who had kept crying* "Kill him, kill him" (R,33,34), During the fight O’Donnell was dragged down a flight of stairs leading from the dance hall by two colored soldiers but freed himself and returned to the dance hall, Hiller was then gone (R.37),
5,	The Charges as originally drafted and verified by the accuser. Major John D, Holm, on 17 March 1943, contained Charge I and Charge II and Specifications, On 18 March 194-3, the charges as then existing were, referred by the Commanding Officer of 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate) to Captain Vaughan C, Shaw, of the same unit, for. investigation. On 19 March 1943, Captain Shaw made his report of investigation to the Commanding Officer.
Thereafter on 28 March 1943, the Commanding Officer referred the Additional Charge to First Lieutenant Dale A. Lehr, also of the same unit, for investigation who made his report thereon on 31 March 1943.
By third indorsement dated 1 April 1943, the Commanding Officer forwarded the original Charges and Additional Charge to the Commanding General, Western Base Section, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations, with recommendation for trial by General Court-Martial.
The Staff Judge Advocate, WBS, SOS, ETO, in his report on charges preliminary to trial, dated 8 April 1943, commented*
"The Additional Charge as drawn should be sworn to, as the original affidavit refers to 17 March which is before the time the additional charge was entered."
The original Charges and Additional Charge were referred for trial by General Court-Martial on 4 May 1943, but apparently nothing was done to comply with the recommendation of the Staff Judge Advocate. Accused was therefore brought to trial upon an unverified Charge and
239337	531
(96)
\ ._L-'iT i rtL
Specification* Insofar as the documents attached to the record of trial indicate, the Additional Charge and Specification.were written on the charge sheet without the knowledge or approval of the accuser but were duly investigated pursuant to the requirements of the 70th Article of War and were regularly referred for trial. The defense raised no objection. Copy of the charges were served on Defense Counsel on 5 May 1943» and this defect presumably appeared upon the face of the copy of the charge sheet served.
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the rule of CM 172002, Nickerson, governs this situations
"The provisions of AW 70 requiring the Charges and Specifications to be sworn to was intended for the benefit of the accused in order that he might not be subjected to frivolous or malicious prosecution and if he did not object to the irregularity and the accusation is sustained by the proof the fact that the Charge and Specifications were not sworn to would not in itself injuriously affect any of the substantial rights of the accused."
In CM ETO 106, Orbon, the Board of Review in its own holding reached the same conclusion as announced in the Nickerson case. The reasoning of CM 229477. Floyd, is also applicable to the instant case. (Cf: M.C.M,, par.31, p.2l).
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the rights of accused were not in any manner prejudiced by the fact that the Additional Charge and Specification were unsworn.
6,	The accused did not take the stand as a witness in his own behalf nor did he make an unsworn statement. The record is silent as to whether his rights were explained to him as provided inJH.C.M., par.75, p.59 and par.86, p.6l. In the absence of evidence in the record that accused was denied any of his rights and privileged it will be presumed that Defense Counsel made proper explanation to accused of his rights, and that the usual and ordinary procedure of court was followed. (M.C.M., par.45b, p.35; CM ETO 139, McDaniels).
7.	The defense presented two witnesses. Private First Class Sylvester Greenlee and Private Joseph D, Covell. both of Company B,
383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate) (R.40,59,70; who were bamck-mates of the accused, in an attempt to prove that accused, at the time and date of the assault on Gordon (Additional Charge and Specification) was in a highly intoxicated condition and was in and around the Battalion Headquarters and in his barracks. The witnesses were examined and cross-examined at length. It is not necessary to summarize their evidence. Insofar as it conflicted with Gordon's and Cornes' positive
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(97)
identification of accused as Gordon’s assailant an issue of fact was created for the court’s determination. There is substantial competent evidence to sustain the court’s finding that it was accused who assaulted Gordon at the time and. place alleged in the Specification, and such finding is binding on the Board of Review (CM ETO 492, Lewis: CM ETO 5<->3, Richmond).
8* Charge I and its Specification alleges that accused on 1 March 1943, assaulted Hiller and O'Donnell with intent to do him (them) bodily harm, by striking them with his fists. Hiller's and O’Donnell’s testimony is uncontradicted that accused struck each of them with his fists. The-defense offered no evidence either in denial or explanation of the affair at Aintree Institute dance hall. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of the court that accused was guilty of the offense charged in Charge I and its Specification. (M.C.M., par.l4^J> p.180).
9. The accused pleaded guilty to Charge II and the specifications thereunder. Prosecution’s evidence is uncontradicted and fully proves the commission by accused at the time and place alleged of the offenses charged in Specification 1 (appearing at a public dance in improper uniform) and Specification 2 (drunk and disorderly in uniform in a public place). The word 11 did" appearing in the latter specification renders the meaning of the allegation ambiguous or obscure. It should be read "was". (People v. Duford, 66 Mich, 90, 31 C.J., sec.177, p.656). Notwithstanding accused's plea of guilty to Specification 3, the court found him not guilty. It is noted that this specification was also unsworn, but this is immaterial in view of the count’s findings thereon. The court correctly made such finding. The evidence is clear that Hiller and O'Donnell did not place accused under arrest in the dance hall. They were merely attempting to escort him from the hall to talk with him concerning his* improper uniform and such fact was explained to accused by Hiller. At that time the military police had no thought of charging accused with an offense.
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of the court that accused was guilty of the offenses charged in Specifications 1 and 2, Charge II.
10. The Additional Charge and its Specification charges accused with assaulting Gordon with a knife with intent to commit a felony, to wit, murder, in violation of the-93rd Article of War. One of the principal elements of such offense which must be proved by the prosecution beyond a reasonable doubt is that accused committed the assault with the specific intent viz, to commit murder (M.C.M., par.149 1, p.178). Accused's threat to cut Gordon's "head off" followed immediately by his vicious and unprovoked attack with a knife upon Gordon is substantial evidence proving the specific felonious intent (CM ETO 503, Richmond: CM ETO 533, Brown). The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of the offense charged by the Additional Charge and its Specification.
- 7 -
239537
531
11.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the accused and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The sentence of the court is legal. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support all of the findings of guilty and the sentence.
12.	Accused is 23 years of age. He enlisted 31 December 1941, for duration of war plus six months. His approved sentence includes confinement for 20 years for an act, to-wit assault with intent to commit a felony, murder, recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable' by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by
35 Stat. 114-3, 18 U.S.C., 4-55, and which renders his retention in the service undesirable (AW 42). War Department directive (AG 253 (2-6-4l)E, 26 February 1941) requires that prisoners under 31 years of age with sentences of not more than ten years be confined in a Federal Correctional Institution or Reformatory. As the confinement in this case is for 20 years, designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, is proper. Accused's return to the United States and execution of sentence to dishonorable discharge is authorized (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 Sept 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 Dec 1942).
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
•• 8 —
confidential
(99)
1st Ind.
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA, 3 JUl. 1943 TOj Commanding General, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA,
1,	In the case of Private THADDEUS G, McLURKIN, (18015986), Company B, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50£, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence,
2,	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this cffice is
ETO 531, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the. end of the order:	(ETO	531)*
//^E. C, McNEIL, / jfgadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General,
1 Incl:
Holding of Board of Revises
1
239337
531

#(101)
