#(363)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the	1
European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1065
UNITED STATES )'
)
v.	)
)
Captain ASA G. STRATTON,	)
(0-451084), Finance Department, ) Headquarters 2nd Infantry	)
Division.	)
29 DEC 1943
1
2ND INFANTRY DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Armagh, Northern Ireland, 3 November 1943. Sentences To be dismissed the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates'
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has
been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.	'	'
2.	Accused was tried‘upon the following Charge and Specification*
CHARGE* Violation of the 85th Article of War.
Specification* In that Captain Asa G, Stratton,
Headquarters 2d Infantry Division, was, at or near Belfast, Northern Ireland, on or 'about 20 October 1943, found drunk while on duty as Assistant Division Finance Officer.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and of the Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service and to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 2nd Infantry Division, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50£.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
3.	The evidence for the prosecution was substantially, as follows: About 9*00 a.m. 20 October 1943, accused, who was assistant,division finance officer of the 2nd Infantry Division, was directed by. his superior officer, Major lenson Bethel, Division Finance Officer, to accompany him to Belfast, Ireland (R6-7)•	The two officers Were to obtain some money
and to familiarize themselves with certain new financial procedure. Major Bethel's main purpose in taking accused along was to enable the latter to learn the new'financial procedure in this theater (R7-9,13-14). Sergeants Mattson and O'Hearn accompanied them. Upon their arrival in Belfast about 10:30 a.m., accused was given permission by Major Bethel to get a shave, and was told to report to him at the finance office when he had finished (R7). When he appeared at the office about 11:30 - 11:45 a.m., he had not been shaved. For fifteen minutes there followed a discussion about financial matters by accused, Major Bethel and Major W.C.Tankersley who was on duty in the Base Finance Office (R8,22-23)..
Major Bethel testified that accused spoke more or less loudly and kept repeating himself. "He asked questions pertaining to .a matter that was taken care of and came back and asked the same question ***n.
In th6 opinion of Major Bethel' he wa3 drunk, and not in such a condition that he could perform the duty of le&rning the new procedure (R8-9).' He did not smell alcohol on his breath (R14).
* Major Tankersley testified that accused's breath smelled of alcohol and he was very loud and boisterous in his manner. "#** he didn't seem to want to listen about how finance was worked over here and had various ideas and I tried to tell him they were not true." He asked one or two questions two or three times (R23). In Major Tankersley's opinion he was under the influence of alcohol (R23,26) but he. could not say he was drunk (R25). "In my opinion if a man is under the influence of it, he doe3 not have control of his faculties" (R26). Major Tankersley was of the furtHer opinion that accused was not then in condition "to take charge of any amount of money. Not public funds, at least" (R28),
Finally Major Bethel decided there was no use in continuing and . privately told accused to stop drinking, get something to eat and then to get in the car'and stay there. He also instructed the two sergeants "to stay with him.". After Major Bethel's return from lunch, accused again appeared at the office about 2:00 p.m. His actions and appearance were the Sams', he was unshaven and in Major Bethel's opinion he was still drunk. He instructed him to return to the car (R8-10), Fifteen or twenty minutes later Majors Bethel and Tankersley went down to the street where they found accused in the car. As the two sergeants had gone to the post office, Major Bethel told accused to wait in the car until they returned and then to come to a certain bank. After'Major Tankersley had told the driver how to get there, Majors Bethel and Tankersley walked to the bank which was about four blocks away.. In Major Bethel's opinion accused was still drunk and Major'Tankersley was of the opinion that he was still under alcoholic influence. He was however, courteous to Major Tankersley (R10,
-2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(365)
14-15,23-24).	•
About 3*15 - 3*30 p.m., Sergeant O’Hearn appeared at the bank ■ and as the result of his conversation* with Major Bethel, the latter went to the Dark Horse pub where he found accused whose chin was "skinned". He was "yelling at the top of.his voice" and from his actions and speech, Major Bethel concluded that he was drunk (Ell,16,18-21),	They then drove
back to the finance office, secured some cash and returned to Armagh. Accused slept in the rear seat during the journey, and remarked when they arrived at camp "We're here, so what." When Major Bethel ordered him out of the car he walked unassisted into his quarters (Rll-12). He was on a duty status that day from approximately 9*00 a.m. to about 6:00 p.m. (R12).
A, For the defense, Technicians 3rd Grade Robert A. Mattson and John 0’Heara, Headquarters 2nd Infantry Division, testified in substance that they walked around with accused in the morning trying to find a barber shop but were unsuccessful because "We weren't too sure what one looked like over here." (R29,34-35,45)*	Before accused reported to the finance
office at 11:30 a.m., he had three jiggers of whiskey. The jiggers were of the usual size and appeared to be of a one-ounce capacity (R29,45).
They first went to "Robinson's place" where accused had two whiskies and each of the witnesses drank beer. When they left Robinson's, accused said he needed some cigarettes and entered a small store where he purchased his third drink (R40-41,43,52-55).	Both witnesses testified that when
accused was at the finance office between 11:30 a.m. - 12:00 noon, his behavior was normal, his questions were logical and pertinent to matters of finance, and in their opinion, he was not drunk .(R30-31,45-47). About noon Major Bethel .told Sergeant Mattson to go with accused and to stay with him. Mattson replied "Don't worry. I'll take care of him," meaning that he would "See to it that he wouldn't drink any more" (R39). About 2:00 p.m. accused went up to the finance office and left the two soldiers on the street with the car and driver. Accused found them gone on his return and when they returned, he admonished them for having left as he had instructed them to remain with the car. He was normal at that time and said that they would go to the bank to meet Major Bethel and obtain some money (R33,39)» On the way to the bank about 2:45 - 3*00 p.m. accused was directing the driver. They became lost and he started to leave the car to inquire the way from a passer-by. He tripped, catapulted out of the car, struck the pavement.very hard and received a cut .on the chin (R32,36-37,45,47-49,52,54).	He was then "*** more or less in a
dazed condition ***". When O'Hearn helped him to get up, his chin was cut and bleeding and he said "Take me in there", pointing to the Black (Dark) Horse public house. He sat down on a chair and took one drink, his fourth that day, while Mattson tried to stop the bleeding. O'Hearn left to get Major Bethel (R33,43-44,47).	Accused slept most of the way
home (R54)•	;
Up to the time of his fall, accused had consumed but three drinks, and had no drinks from the time he left the finance office for
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
lunch until after he fell on the pavement (R31,46). Both Mattson and O'Hearn testified that up until the time of the accident, hiB behavior had been normal, he was courteous to his superiors, he performed his duties in the usual manner, and in their opinion he was not drunk (R32, A6-A7). Mattson testified that in his opinion his dazed condition after the accident was because of the fall and not the result of drinking alcohol (R33), and O'Hearn'was of the opinion that the fall itself was caused by an accidental stumble-and not by drunkenness (RA8-49)*
Captain George Mandeville, Medical Corps, 2nd Infantry Division, examined accused in the e vening of 21 October 19A3 at the request .of two officers who occupied the same billet with accused. He found on his chin "a laceration and contusion and an irregular cut" about one and one-half inches long. Accused told him that he had received the cut as the result of an accidental fall from a vehicle the previous afternoon, that he remembered nothing until a few hour3 later, that he faintly recalled being ordered to get out of a vehicle in front of his quarters but that "**-* things were very vague to him, and he didn't know where he was or what he was doing." He felt the same way during that evening (20 October), and was taken to his quarters and put to bed. His mind was still "foggy" on the e vening of 21 October. ' Captain Mandeville's examination disclosed that accused's reflexes were very sluggish. His answers were not very clear and concise, which appeared unusual, the captain having spoken to him on several previous occasions. The rest of the physical examination was "practically negative." The captain's diagnosis was that accused "*** had a fairly severe concussion due to the1 fall and striking on the chin *+*. The history that he gave me was entirely . typical of moderate concussion of the brain. I had the impression that he was still suffering from this concussion," On the following day (22 October) his reflexes "had returned practically to normal" and his answers to questions were normal. Asked if accused's condition on 21 October could have been caused by drinking four jiggers of whiskey on'
20 October, Captain Mandeville testified "I have never seen the effects of alcohol produce that type of reaction and, secondly, I have never seen them-last that long." With reference to any possible injury to the jaw bone he testified "It would be impossible to detect that because the bone was not protruding. He didn't make any complaints." (R56-59)»
Accused, upon being advised of his rights, was sworn as witness in his own defense and testified in substance that on the morning of 20 October he and the two sergeants had traveled fiveor six blocks but could not find a barber shop. Before he went to the finance office he had three drinks. The jiggers used appeared to be of one-ounce capacity.
He then reported to Major Bethel at the finance office and was especially interested "in the gain or loss in the exchange of money." He did repeat a number of questions because he did not understand certain facts about financial procedure "over here". Major Bethel did not privately mention to him anything about drinking but had informed him that it was time to go to lunch. Accused paid for the lunches of the two sergeants and did not
- A -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(367)
drink anything at that time. Prior to the time he left the finance office, Major Bethel had said that the only thing to do was to obtain some money, that "After lunch you can kill time and come back around three o'clock to the car here." After 2s00 p.m. when it was time to go to the bank, accused went upstairs to the finance office and informed Iliajor Bethel that they were ready. He was told to return to the car and wait. He did so and discovered that the two sergeants had gone to the post office. The two majors appeared, gave the directions.to the bank and walked away. When the two sergeants returned he did not admonish them but "was peeved" because they had left when they knew that "we were due at the bank." On the way to the bank they became lost. Accused ordered the driver to stop the car’ and while attempting to get out he stumbled and injured his chin. After he fell he "was blacked-out" and did not realize until the following morning that his chin was injured. Major Bethel had taken him to Belfast in order that he could "find out the set-up of the finance office in the ETO." Asked on cross-examination, why he had stopped to get two drinks when he was unable to find the barber shop, he testified "We had just completed approximately three weeks of traveling — this isn't an excuse *— and I was feeling considerably bad and thought in order to do my work better, two or three drinks would help. I'll admit I didn't feel any better afterwards, but I don't see how they affected me". He had been an officer in the Army since 31 December.1941'(R60-61).
5.	The evidence was.legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty of the offense alleged. Accused,, who was assistant division finance officer had been directed hy Major Bethel to accompany him to Belfast for the purpose of learning certaip new financial procedure, and was on a duty status while in that city.
"Drunkenness upon any occasion of duty properly devolved upon an officer or soldier by reason of his office, command, rank or general military obligation"
(Winthrop*3-Military Law & Precedents -Reprint - p.613)-
is the offense denounced hy Article of War 85.
"The term 'duty' as used in this article means of course military duty. But, it is important to note, every duty which an officer or soldier is legally required, by superior military authority, to execute, and for the proper execution of which he is answerable to such authority, is necessarily a military duty" (Ibid, pp.614-615J Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, par.
145, p.159).
When he appeared at the office at lit30 a.mV he smelled of alcohol, was
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
very loud and boisterous in his manner, and kept repeating questions which had already been answered. In the opinion of Major Bethel he was drunk and not in a condition to perform his duties. Although Major Tankersley could not say that he was drunk, he did consider him under the influence of alcohol, and testified that in his opinion if a man is under such influence he does not have control of his faculties. Accused’s condition was not such that he could have been.intrusted with public funds. Major Bethel was of the opinion that he was still drunk at about 2:00 -2s30 p.m. and Major Tankersley testified that he was then still under the influence of alcohol. Major Bethel further testified that when he went to the Dark Horse "pub" about 3*15 - 3*30 p.m. he concluded from the speech and actions of accuse*?, who was yelling at the top of his voice,
that he was also drunk at that time,
1 -
"*** any intoxication which is sufficient sensibly to impair the rational and full exercise of the mental and physical faculties is drunkenness within the meaning of the Article" /All 85/ ‘ (Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, par.14-5, p.l,6Q).
The evidence for the.defense, including that of accused, shows that he took three drinks of whiskey before appearing at the finance office at 11*30 a.m. The jiggers used appeared to be of a one-ounce capacity. He had one.drink at the Dark Horse "pub" after his fall. Both Mattson and O’Kearh testified that prior to his fall in their opinion accused’s behavior*was normal, he was courteous to his superiors, his question^ at the office pertaining to finance were logical, and he was not drunk. Mattson believed his dazed condition after the accident was occa-.sioned by the”fall and not the result”of' drinking alcohol. O’Hearn was of the opinion that the fall was purely accidental and not caused by drunkenness. The issue of drunkenness was,one of fact for the sole determination of the court and in view of the evidence, the Board of Review will not disturb its findings.
6.	Attached to the record of trial is a request for clemency by accused based, in substance, upon his past record of service for nine months as an enlisted man, three months as an officer candidate and approximately twenty-two months as an officer. Also attached at his request is a true copy of his officer's classification card W.D. AGO form No. 66-1, and a recommendation for his promotion to the grade of Major by the Commanding General, 2nd Infantry Division, dated 16 June 1943, together with the indorsements thereon.
7.	‘ The charge sheet shows that accused is 26 years of age and that he was commissioned 31 December 1941.
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(369)
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, A sentence of dismissal is mandatory upon the conviction of an officer of being drunk on duty in time of war in violation of Article of War 85 (CM 255639 (1942), Bui, JAG., Oct 1942, Vol.I, No.5, par.443> p.275).
Advocate
Advocate
Advocate
7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(370)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. J> 9 DEC 1943 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.
1.	In the case of Captain ASA G. STRATTON, (0-451084), Finance Department, Headquarters 2nd Infantry Division, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial
is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^ you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	In addition to dismissal from the service the sentence imposed by the court includes forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due. The sentence is entirely legal in view of the conviction of a violation of Article of War 85. An examination of cases of conviction by courts-martial of officers in the United States wherein the President has acted as the confirming authority, discloses that that part of a sentence which imposes total forfeitures has almost uniformly been remitted. Such a remission would afford the officer involved the means with which to pay his obligations which are outstanding at the termination of his service, as well as the cost of transportation to his home. If such a policy has Virtue in the United States, there is even stronger reason for it here in a foreign land distant from home. Attached to the record of trial at the request of accused is a true copy of his officer’s classification card W.D.AGO form No. 66-1, from which it appears that the character of performance of accused’s duties from shortly after the time he became an officer, 31 December 1941, until 30 June 1943 has been excellent. Also attached at his request is a recommendation for his promotion to the grade of Major by the reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 2nd Infantry Division, dated 16 June 1943 together with the indorsements thereon. The recommendation was returned without action by 2nd indorsement dated 2 July 1943 because of the absence of a position vacancy within the organization,* and the impossibility of reassignment from units alerted for oversea movement (WD, Circular #161, 26 May 1942, par.2a; WD, Circular #79, 19 March 1943, sec.II). A study of War Department court-martial orders indicates
,-rather clearly that the President would suspend execution of the sentence to dismissal - the prior record of the officer is excellent, the drunkenness was not extreme and the duty was not one which depended solely on the accused for its performance but was merely to accompany his superior to an informal conference.
Tour attention is invited to the foregoing in the event that you should desire in any way to modify your action prior to publication of the court-martial order,	•
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement.
- 8-
ftPNFIDENTIAL.
^CONFIDENTIAL
(371)
The file number of the record in this office is- ETO 1065. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 1065).'
(So much of sentence as involves total forfeitures remitted. Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 2, ETO, 7 Jan 1944)
CONFlitNTlAl

#(373)
