#(91)
GCMD 8, ETO,. 14 Feb 19U)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations '	-APO	871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 12C1.
UNITED ‘STATES )'
b	.
Private (formerly Corporal) )‘ LIONEL (Mil) FHEIL (33052124) ) Company "L", 115th Infantry )
)
* )
2.9 MAR 1944 .
‘29TH INFANTRY DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at APO 29 U.S. Army, 23 December 1943* Sentence 1 Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
—	—■ f III y	■	T	—	-	"	■	—	■
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW • RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, 'judge Advocates
*	*	v
1# The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.'	1
* 2* Accused was tried upon the following Charge tad Specification!
CHARGE » Violation of the 9’3rd Article of War.
Specification! In that Corporal Lionel phei’l, Company "L", 115th Infantry, did, at Bodmin, Eng- ’ , land, on or about 1 December 1943* feloniously ‘ take, steal, and carry away a pocketbook and L37, British currency, value about $150.00* the property of Corporal George W. Ward.
1
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced* He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and* to be confined ‘at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for five years* The rewiawing xthoiity approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory,1 Chilli -cothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 5^i.
3* Competent, substantial evidence presented by the prosecution established the following indisputable factsi
r	X	•	*	A
At about 1800 hours on 1 December 1943, Sergeant Schwatka, Private first elbss Crockett, Corporal' George w. Ward and accused, all of Company *1*, 115th Infantry, were in barracks and were in one anoth-ers inked!ate presence. Ward inquired of Schwatka if he were going on his furlough during December, to which. Schwatka replied in the negative explaining that he had lost most of his money in a poker game and in addition had incurred gambling debts. At that time Ward had in his shirt pocket a wallet containing *38 or.L40 in English currency (r6,8). Schwatka then left the barrack room and simultaneously private first ~ class John J. Jarrett, Company "L", 115th Infantry, entered. At this instant, the lights were extinguished in the barracks, due to a temporary failure of the electrical service in camp (R5,18). ' At Crockettra request, Jarrett commenced sewing stripes on the sleeves of Crockett16 blouse, and Crockett held a flashlight so that Jarrett could see to do the work. Accused's bed was across the aisle from Ward's bed — about five feet from It. Accused at this time stood between tlie two beds (R5» 6). Ward removed his shirt, ascertaining at the same time that the wallet was in the pocket and that the pocket was*buttoned (r6,7)« He then wrapped the shirt in a raincoat an& placed it on his beTl. Borrowing a flashlight from Jarrett (who owned two flashlights), * Ward' left the room and went to the latrine. The accused, Crockett and Jarrett remained in the room upon Ward's departure. Ward returned in about five minutes(R7» 18). ‘He dressed in a clean shirt and then reached for his wallet, which he had placed in the pocket of his shirt on his bed. The wallet and the money contained therein were missing’. Darkness yet prevailing. Ward asked ior a flashlight and searched his bed for the wallet, but did not find it. Jarrett, Crockett and accused were still present. Ward then saidt ■There are three persons that are not going to leave this room until I find the money* (r6,7»10). Jarrett and Crockett offered themselves for search but Ward did not search them. Accused, although present, remained silent. Ward askedi *lhere the hell is Pheil?", but receiving no answer (r6,7,8,10), inquired for accused of other men who came into the barracks* Ward did not see accused until the lights were turned on a short time later. Accused then offered Ward the opportunity to search him, but Ward did not do so (R6,6). The electric lights remained extinguished for about fifteen minutes (K7).
»	1
The company conmartder, Captain Arthui* D.i Lawson, was absent from camp on 2 December 1943» 80 Ward had complained of his loss to Lieutenant KacDonnell. Captain Lawson returned oil the evening of 2 December 1943* end Ward immediately reported the theft to him. On Friday morning, 3 December 1943* Ward, pursuant to Captain Lawson's instructions, reported to the company orderly room and there gave Captain Lawson a statement of the episode involving the loss of the money* Captain Lawson had the company assembled, informed the men that a sum of money had been stolen, explained the seriousness of the offense and made request for its return. He further stated "that if the person ■would see me I'd see if we couldn't make it easy for,the one responsible"
(R14).
2
(93)
4,	After waiting until the afternoon of 4 December 1943# and the money not naving Deen recovered, Captain Lawson told a Colonel Sheppe of the incident and then approached Lieutenant Harrison }!• Holland, Military Police Platoon, 29th Infantry Division, and informed him of t'he particulars of the theft* Lieutenant Holland instructed Captain Lawson to bring the men whom he suspected down to the ‘police station* (R15*23),
*
Sergeant Robert Snell and Constable William Frederick^Timmins, were members of the_Cornwall Constabulary stationed at Bodmin, Timmins was at tne United States Army military installation at A*P*0.29, on 4 December 1943 on other busipess (Rll,17»19#20), where Captain Lawson and Lieutenant Holland informed him of the theft, .Captain Lawson in talking with, Timmins( solicited the help of the civilian police. Timmins informed Captain Lawson that the matter ‘would hare to go through the normal and usual channels" j that he (Timmins) ,‘would have to ioake a report of it to the superintendent1* (R19)f that he would ‘get in touch with Sergeant Snell‘ and if Captain. Lawson ‘would bring the 3 men to the police- station, who were in the room with Corporal Ward", Timmins ‘would see what could be done* (R19»20,29).
Captain Lawson, thereupon on the evening of 4 December I943 ordered Jarrett and Crockett to meet him at, the constabulary police station and took Ward and accused with him in a jeep.to the station (R15). At the station Captain Lawson and the four soldiers'were met by Lieutenant Holland, Accused, Jarrett and Crockett were taken into Sergeant Snell's office (Rll-
12.28)	and were questioned by him. Suspicion fell upon accused, who was
duly cautioned. He denied any knowledge of the theft of the money. Captain Lawson and Lieutenant Holland were present while Snell was questioning accused and they also questioned him, _ Snell, believing that accused was not telling all he knew because of the presence of the two officers, asked the latter to leave the room.	They complied with the request (R12,15,28).
Snell, alone with the accused, cautioned him again and then informed him that he was to be questioned. Accused repliedi ‘OK Sarge, carry on,‘
Snell then stated to accused that "he was standing near Corporal Ward's bed when he (Ward) left the hut and he was not there when Ward returned and that he was strongly under suspicion,* (R12)« Accused then stood up and said, ‘Well, Sarge, I. had it, I have about	10s in notes on me now, I will
admit to Captain Lawson that I took.the money and I will hand the money to him," Captain Lawson then returned to the office and accused gave him L52» 10s in notes and said Ward's money was among the bills or notes (R12,
14.15.28) ,	At the request of Lieutenant Holland, accused was then supplied with a sheet of paper and by his own hand wrote the following statement (R12,28), which without objection was admitted in evidence as ‘Prcs»Ex,l‘i
•Dec. 4 1943
I,	Lionel Fheil, 33052124 Cpl. Co L. 115th Inf, being under no pressure or coercion state a follows on the night of Dec, 1 1943 were in the barracks with Cpl Ward, Pvt, Jarrett, Pvt, Crockett' when the lights went out, Cpl Ward left the room leaving his wallet containing an amount of money unknown to me, lying on the bed. I in the darkness
- 3 -
(9a)
took the wallet* Later t took the money from the wallet and threw the walletin the sireet*in Bodmin*
On pee 4 1943 1 returned the money to Captain Lawson
(s) Lionel Pheil 2140 hrs.
’	4	Dec	1943
Cpl Phial before as did write the above statement
a ♦
(s)( Arthur D, Lawson Capt* Inf
1	.	\
#	.	,	■■ v,
(s) Harrison H* Holland 1st Lt. CMP	,
(s) r’« Snail. Sergt*"
5.	Wal'd received as pay on 30 November 1943 M3» 14® end odd pence*
His ppy was contained in an envelope and consisted of thirteen one pound v notes and metal change (R8). The men in the con?)any ware paid according to grade, and within the seme grade they were paid alphabetically* * One Landon and Ward held the grade of T/5* Landpn was therefore paid Immediately prior to Ward (H17)* After Captain Lawson obtained the 1*52. 10s from accused, he secured from Landon the serial numbers of the pound notes paid to him* According to Captain Lawson. Ward having been paid after Landon the numbers of the notes received by Ward should have been in consec-utive order* Among the bank notes delivered by accused to Captain Lawson”> there were seven or eight whose serial numbers coincided with the,numbers of notes with which Ward was paid (B14-15)* Ward asserted that although he had gambled in a crap, game prior to the theft he had not reduced the money in his possession at any time below seven or eight pounds (r8-9,10)*
When he entered the gams he had no money other than what he had been paid (BIO)* About 1*38 to 1^.0, including the notes paid to him. were contained in the wallet which was stolen (B6.8)*
6.	With respect to Accused's confession, in addition to his remarks to the assembled company. Captain*Lawson told accused "that I'd try and get him off by 'busting' him and transferring him out of this company"(R14)»
At the police station before the confession, he at first denied the' theft* Captain Lawson then told himt "J^ould .try and gat him off as easy as I could with a reduction in grade and a transfer, but could not pz^mpLsa him that he would not be court-martialed*• (R15), and "I did not know wbqt higher headquarters would do about it but would recommend a special court -martial ,* * * also * • • that he had been an excellent soldier"(R16)* Captain Lawson stated that accused informed him. "that before he would go before ,a general court-martial, he .would admit the offense and pay the money back and take the blame.* (R16)* Lieutenant Holland in relating the incidents of the meeting at the police station whereat Captain Lawson, .SergeantJSnell,'Lieutenant Holland accused were present, declared that "Captain Lawson asked him (accused) to tell us if he took the money and where we could ^ind it end that >
4
(95)
he (Captain Lairson) would see that it would not go too hard with Fheil if he oonfesaed he took the money, that he (Fheil) would he 'busted’; and transferred"(R28).	TShen the accused signed the statement he asked
Lieutenant Holland if he would he tried for the offense and the latter told him that he could not promise him anything* He also told accused that he would keep tne statement in his file and hare a copy made for the civilian police and that it would not he used unless accused later said that they had threatened him and that the only reason he gave, the money back was to keep them from questioning him (R28-29), Accused testified that Captain Lawson told him that "if I was guilty to admit the theft and to return the money, that I would be 'busted' and transferred out of the company, and that there would'be no courtunertial," (H22,24) and farther'that Lieutenant Holland told him that if he did not sign a at at ament that he had taken the money, "I would stand court-martial and that charges would be preferred, and * • * I could draw my own conclusions about what would happen. Then I wrote this statement and signed it"(R22). Accused declared that inasmuch as all circumstantial evidence pointed to him, and Captain Lawson, Lieutenant Holland and Sergeant Snell told him they believed'he was guilty he "knew there would be a court-martial if I did not do anything, I never heard of anyone beating a court-martial and I thought it would be better if I parted with the L’37 so that I would not have to stand a court-martial and I wanted to keep a clean record"(R22,24). Lieutenant Holland asked him to sign the statement and told him that it would be put in a secret file and held in confidence (R25-27),	1
- - » _•
7* In addition to his testimony concerning the statement (Fros.Ex. 1) set forth above, accused testified that he was in the barracks on the evening of 1 December 1943 and was engaged in'a conversation with a group of soldiers,	:
>	i
■* * * The fellows in'the barracks were talking and I joined in the conversation and about that time Sergeant Schwatka entered the room and left and then'the lights went out and>Jarrett entered. Crockett was in the room when I entered.
After the lights went out. Ward was around his bed searching for his blouse which he had mislaid. After a while ha (Ward) decided he had to urinate and borrowed a flashlight from Jarrett and loft the room. I stayed still for a short while and then felt my way around to my own bed and got my flashlight and-continued to;dress and about that time Ward returned and again made a search around his bed and Jarrett asked him what he was looking for but Ward did hot say. At about this time the other fellows entered the room, coming from* supper’and Ward stated that his wallet had been stolen.’ I stayed around till about 8130 before I left. At one time, Crockett,
5
(96)
Jarratt and I offered to'let Ward aearcli us to see if we had the money, but he did not search us.
That is about all,'(R21),
Upon being asked how it was he had the i52 which he delivered to Captain Lawson at the Constabulary police station he replied!
•I got paid L12, 10s| had L3 owed to mej won about L15 on the night of the 3rd and 4th) won about id on Ffiday night and had about L14 on me' (R22),
He further explained that he won the money described by shooting crap and playing cards (R22),
On cross-examination, he stated that he didn't 'think* he heard Ward call his name when Ward returned from the latrine) that when the lights went out he stood for about thirty seconds and then started to feel his way around to his bed to obtain his flash-light which he turned on and continued .dressing) that he stood 'on the other side of the room, across the aisle (from Ward's bed) by the bed next to mine') and that it was five or six feet from Ward's bed and he heard no one around it. He admitted he overheard a conversation between Ward and Schwatka wherein Ward spoke of the amount of money he had, but denied that Ward showed him (accused) his money. He ’ further asserted that a soldier named Stankus, who carried a flash-light walked through the barracks during this time (R23«24), When asked by a member of the court how he accounted 'for the fact that some of the money that Ward was paid off with was in the roll of notes" which he turned over to Captain Lawson, he replied! *1 might have won it when gambling". However, he stated that Ward had not been in a game with him at any time (R25), and that he could think of no one wh6 knew that he had won money playing cards end shooting crap'(R23*24),	■'	,
8,	* Determination of the legal sufficiency of.the record td sustain the findings of guilty primarily'requires the consideration of four evidentiary questions!	'	-
I	—
(a)	- Pros, Ex,l is the signed confession of aecused wherein he admitted the larceny of WArd's wallet and money.	Although-there was an
affirmative indication by the defense that it had no objection to its-admis-sion (R12) it formed a vital part of the prosecution's ease. The question of its admissibility therefore remains open for consideration by the Board of Review (CM ETC 527, Astrella).
With respect to the admissibility of confessions the following quotation from the Manual for Courts-Martial is' cogent 1
"Factfe indicating that a confession was induced by hope 6? benefit or fear of punishment or injury inspired by a person competent (or believed by the pariy
6
confessing to be competent) to effec^ tuate the hope or fear is, subject to the following,observations, evidence that the confession was involuntary, ,
Mach depends on the nature of the ben- t efit or of the punishment or injury, on the words used, and on the personality of the accused, and on the relations of the parties involved. Thus, a benefit, punishment, or injury of trivial importance to the accused need not be accepted as having induced a confession, especially where the confession involves a serious offense| casual remarks or > indefinite expressions need not be regarded as having inspired hope or fear; and •_ an intelligent, experienced, strongminded soldier might not be influenced by words and circumstances which might influence an ignorant, dull-minded recruit,(UCM,I928, par,114a, p.llb).
■ * * *
The effect .of promises of immunity upon a confession of an accused is stated thus*
‘Inducements by way< of promises of benefit made by persons in authority in respect of the prosecution of the accused £or the crime with which he is charged, which have reference to the person’s escape from pun- -ishmsnt for such crime or his partial ( escape therefrom, or promises to mitigate
• punishment are sufficient to render confessions made in consequence thereof involuntary and inadmissible, A promise of immunity is held to be of such foroe as to render a confession made in reliance thereon involuntary, If a confession is induced by a promise of leniency or clemency, ^although not necessarily of an entire escape from punishment, it is not admissible in evidence against the confessor, A promise to free the accused in return f|or his confession is in the sene category, and has the same effect upon a confession obtained thereby, as a promise of insanity"(20 im, Jur,, Evidence, sec*
511, p.440).
7
(98)
"It is generally held that if a confession is induced by a promise of leniency or clemency, although not necessarily of an entire escape from punishment, it is not admissible in evidence against the-confessor. Thus, a confession is-not admissible if made in response to a promise to’make it lighter' on the accused for confessing; to recommend a life sentence to the jury rather than capital punishment; to relieve the defendant from a prosecution in the state court; or to release the defendant from jail on bond*
(2 Wharton's Criminal Evidence - 11th Ed»-sec.619, pp.1039-1040).
In the administration of military justice the fact that a confession is made by the accused to his superior officarmay be the decisive element in determining whether or not it was a voluntary confession,
"The fact that the confession was made to _ a military superior or to the representative or agent of such superior will ordinarily be regarded as requiring further inquiry into the circumstances, particularly where the case is one of an enlisted man confessing to a military superior or to the representative or agent of a military superior*(MCM, 1928, par.ll^a, p.ll6).
* * * ' ♦
■In military cases., in view of the authority and influence of superior rank, confessions *	made	by inferiors, especially when ignorant
or inexperienced and held In confinement or close arrest, should be regarded as incompetent unless very clearly shown noy^iava. been unduly influenced. Statements, by way • of confession, made by an inferior under charges to a commanding officer, judge *advo-cate, or other superior whom the accused could reasonably believe capable of making good his words, upon even flight assurance of relief or benefit by such superior, should not in general be admitted. Thus in-a case where a confession was made to his'captain by a soldier upon being told by the former that 'matters would be easier for him,' or 'as easy as possible,' if he confessed, such confession was held not to have been voluntary and therefore improperly admitted" (Winthrop’s Military Law and Precedents - Reprint - p.329).
- 8 -
(99)
•The admissibility of such a confession is to be determined in' the light of the press** dents and interpretations of military lay? alone, for the problems and the purposes of military justice have no exact counterpart *	in	other legal systems. One of the major)
purposes of military justice is the promotion of military discipline. Any act or* practice, therefore, such as the procuring of a confession by trick, promise,or false statement, which would tend to destroy the confidence of the soldier in his superior officer, would be detrimental to the.basic purpose which military justice is designed to serve" (CM 230377.(1943)*’
Bull.JAG, Mar 1943. Vol.li, N0.3, sec*395(10),
P.96).	_	-
,	i
Captain Lawson testified that he stated to accused that if he would admit the theft of Ward's money that he (Captain Lawson) would •try and get him off by 'busting him' and transferring him out of the company". He further testified that on another occasion he informed accused* "that I would try and get him off as easy as I could with a reduction in grade and a transfer, but could not pfoipise him that he would not be court-martialed". This pertinent fact is established by the prosecution's and defense's evidence. Accused was under the immediate command of Captain Lawson and he was the superior officer to whom accused would naturally look for penalties or favors. Such promise was clearly one of at least partial imminity within the rule pertaining to admissibility of confessions, and Inhere can be no question but what such promise would _ prevent the admissibility of accused's written confession had it 'been made directly and exclusively to Captain Lawson (CM 183917 (1928), Dig.Op.JAG 1912-1940, sec.395(10), p.206j CM 230377, supra} CM 206090.. Koehler .and Skillin').	‘
Although accused and all persons concerned in this episode were members of the United States Army and no British civilians were involved either as parties or witnesses, Constable Timmins and Sergeant Snell of the Cornwall Constabulary were solicited to investigate the case. Such practice does not appear to have been authorized by higher authority* It is apparent that the English constables understood clearly the unusual nature of the solicitation of Captain Lawson and Lieutenant Holland that they participated in the matter. Tiarains was specific in his statement that the case must"go through the normal and usual channels" with resultant "report of it to the .superintendent■* Upon this premise the accused was brought before Snell in the latter's office in the Constabulary police station and questioned further by Captain Lawson, Lieutenant Holland and Sergeant Snell*
In such process Captain Lawson again made the promise of immunity if accuse! would admit the theft. Accused remained obdurate and denied fcis guilt*
(100)
* - > Snell, believing tie presence of Captain Lawson and Lieutenant Holland' \
was repressing accused’s freedom of speech, requested the two army
officers to retire, , In the subsequent conversation, involving accused
and Snell only, the former, admitted the theft and offered to deliver
the 1.52 to Captain Lawson. It, wa3 upon the return of the two military
officers to Snell's office that accused wrote and signed his confession,
(Pros.Ex.l).	.
The question naturally arises as to whether or not Sn6ll, by the method he pursued in obtaining accused's confession, succeeded in isolating it from the effect of the poison arising from Captain Lawson's promises of partial immunity, the last of which was made immediately prior to the interview of accused by Snell alone. Stated otherwise the question is whether accused made the statement solely as a result of Snell's presentation to accused of the inculpating circumstances against him or whether the influence of the company commander's promises of leniency remained as the principal operative influence. Snell's interview with accused was completed within a very brief period of time.
Accused actually wrote the confession ip Captain Lawson's, presence.
i	v	%
That "the taint of the inducing promise'' of Captain Lawson remained (CM 206090, Koehler and Sklllin) notwithstanding Snell's intervention is made obvious by two striking circumstances which stand uncontradicted t
(1)	According to Snell, accused said to him upon admitting the theft - "I will admit to'Captain Lawson that I took the money and I will hand the money to him»(R12) (underscoring supplied). This declaration is clearly indicative of the fact that in accused's Hind it was Captain Lawson who was the responsible party in securing his admission of guilt end who would influence his future status.
(2)	Captain Lawson'testified that on being re-called to Snell's office, after Snell had interviewed accused, the latter "told me that he had taken the money and gave me L52* I told Pheil that I would try to get him off as easy'as I could with a reduction,in grade and a transfer, but could not promise him that he would not be court-martialed1' (R15). Accused thereafter wrote and signed Pros.Ex.1. Captain Lawson's statement i3 corroborative of the fact that he had not only made to accused prior promises of partial imnunity, but also that the influence of such promises was extended to the exact moment of accusedfs production of the written confession. There i3 an implication that Snell, being aware of the promises of immunity made to accused by Captain Lawson and its effect upon.accused attempted to eliminate its influence by excluding the military officers from the crucial interview. If such assumption is correct, Snell's attempt was certainly thwarted by Ceptain Lawson repeating his promise of at least partial Immunity at the time immediately prior to accused writing his confession.
JThe Board of Review therefore concludes that the written confession (pros.Ex*l) should have been excluded from evidence as a confession obtained under promises of favor and partial immunity.
10
(101)
(b)	According to Lieutenant Holland when he and Captain Lawson returned to Snell's office "there was a stack of ijotea(on the table, 52 L notes and a 10s note, Pheil said that he had taken the money from Ward's shirt that was on the bed and I told him that,I would hare to make a report" (R28). Captain Lawson testified »* * * Sergeant Snell called me into the room and then Pheil told me that he had taken the money and gave me L52" (R15)» and "when he gave me the money I asked him how much of it belonged to Ward and he (Pheil) said he did not know" (R15), Snell testified that accused said to him* "Well, Sarge, I had it, I have about L52,10s in notes on me now, I will admit to Captain Lawson that I took the money and I will hand the money to him (R12), Snell testified further that when Captain Lawson came in the office accused gave him 1,52,10s in notes and said, "Ward's money was among the bills and notesf (Rl2)(Under-scoring supplied),
* _
Accused made these statements to the three witnesses prior to the time he wrote his formal confession. The underscored portions thereof are highly inculpatory, and are manifestly confessions (CM ETO 292, Mickles),
Inasmuch as the written confession (Pros.Ex.l) was in legal effect nothing more thqn a physical confirmation of accused's preceding oral confessions, upon objection from the defense the oral confessions should have been excluded on the ground that they were not,the best evidence, However, the defense by its failure to object to the oral confessions on this ground waived the sane (MCM, 1928, )par,ll6a, p,120; CM ETO 739, Maxwell), This waiver, however, did not eliminate any other valid objections to the confessions, ,
i	■	i
Upon giving proper and logical consideration to the time and place of these oral confessions and, the circumstances under which they were made, it is manifest that they ere tainted with the same promises of favor and immunity a3 operated against the admissibility ofthe written confession. The exclusion of the written confession of the same criminal-conduct as is included in the oral confessions without excluding the oral confessions themselves would be inconsistent and anomalous. The Board of Review therefore concludes .that accused's oral confessions of guilt should have been wholly excluded from evidence,
(c)	Evidence that accused was found in possession of recently stolen property is not only admissible but may also raise a presumption that he stole the property (MCM, 1928. par,112a, p.110; CM ETO 885, Van Horn), and possession of part of stolen property infers theft of all of the property (CM ETO 952, Mbsserj CM £S£ 157982, Acosta; CM 192031. Allen),
In the instant case accused produced certain pound notes from his person and said that Ward's nxmey was among them, simultaneously with and as part of his oral confessions which were obtained illegally by means of promises 11
11
of partied immunity (see (b_/ supra). Were any parts of the inadmissible oral confessions rendered admissible as a result of accused's actions with respect to the pound notes?
- The rule with respect to admissibility of evidence of inculpatory facts is stated as follows:
*	1	*	l	>
,	"The	rule is'settled that; notwithstanding
the inadmissibility of the confession, all facts discovered in consequence of the information given by the accused, and which go to prove the existence of the crime of which he is suspected,.are admissible as testimony. * * *• It is obvious that a search made as a consequence of information given by the accused must result in the discovery of the inculpatory facts, as otherwise no testimony, either as to the confession, or as to the search instituted in consequence of it, is-admissible. In connection with the discovery of the alleged inculpatory facts, there should be proof, beyond a reasonable doubt, of the identity of the property, -j;he body,,or other fact. This is the rule: with regard to larceny, and in qther ,
,crimes, identification should be complete before admission of the inculpatory facts.
,But when the search reveals the inculpatory facts, and there is conclusive identification of such facts, this necessarily brings with it the reception in evidence of the accused's statements in giving the information"(2 Whartons Criipinal Evidence, 11th Ed, sec.600 PP.995.997.998).
"Independent Facts and Evidence,- discovered through a confession inadmissible because impelled by hope or fear, are not therefore to be rejected. To illustrate: if one under excluding influences confesses a larceny, and thereon cpnducts an unsuccessful search for the stolen goods,.the search equally with,the confession will be withheld from the juryjbut should the goods be found, they may be exhibited to the jury and identified as those stolen*
* * *. But the better common law doctrine in authority and probably in reason is, that when the confession is thus confirmed, simply so much of it as led to the finding, and, shouldr the prisoner have been present at the search
- 12
(103)
and findirg, bis declarations and conduct during this period, or his declarations when he surrenders back an article stolen, may be shown to the jury in connection with the thing itself. The finding makes the truth of so much Of the confession sufficiently evident*. (2 Bishop's New Criminal Procedure - 2nd Ed. sec.1242, pp.l06l,
1062).
■Although a confession may be inadmissible as a whole because it was not voluntarily made, nevertheless the fact that it furnished information which led to the discovery of other evidence of pertinent facts will not be a reason for excluding such other evidence} and when such pertinent facts have thus been proved, so much of the > accused's statement as relates strictly to those facts becomes admissible. For example, where an accused held for larceny said 'I stole the articles and I tore up a board in the floor of my room and L hid them there,' the fact that the confession was improperly induced by promises or threats would not exclude evidence that'the articles-were-dis-cpvered in the place indicated by him, and after the introduction of such evidence, it would be proper to prove that the accused made the statement, 'I tore up a board in > the floor-of my room, and hid them there.'* -
(MCSfl,-1928, par.il4g, pp.H4,H5)« !	■	**
It will be noted that the Manual for Courts-Partial-has adopted the rule denominated by Bishop as the "better common law doctrine." Therefore notwithstanding the condemnation of accused's oral confessions'as inadmissible on the ground heretofore stated, those parts of these confessions which relate strictly to pertinent facts discovered as-a result of ■ information furnished by the confession will be admissible. The pertinent facts however must be proved by evidence other- than that contained in the-illegal confession. In the instant case there is some, although inconclusive evidence independent of the confession that 7 or 8 of the pound notes delivered by accused to-Captain Lawson were part of the stolen property owned by Ward. The condition of the rule permitting those parts of the illegal confessions relating strictly to the identity of the pound notes to be admitted in evidence was therefore met (20 Am. Jur. Evidence, sec.402, p.363, footnote 3). Consequently Captain Lawson's testimony that accused-gave him 1»52 and Snell's evidence that accused-saidj *1 have about L52 10s in notes on me now" and that accused gave Captain Lawson l»52 10s saying ■Ward's money was among the bills aid. notes* were properly admissible in
(104)
evidence, and will be so considered by the Board of Review,
-(d) Accused, when he delivered the l£2 10s in Ehglish currency undoubtedly was prompted by the sane motive and apted under the same influence as produced the inadmissible oral confessions, -The giving of tt» * confessions and the delivery of the currency appear to be but one transaction. The 7 or 8 pound notes contained in the set of 52 pound notes handed by accused to Captain Lawson and which were asserted to be the sane notes received by Ward as part of his army pay, were not produced as evidence.
Had they been offered there can be no question as to their admissibility as they were delivered by accused from his person. Incriminating articles -■real* evidence - taken from the body of the suspect even by force or compulsion are admissible in evidence (State v, Griffin 124 S.E. (S*C.) 1227,
35 ALR 122? and authorities therein cited; 20 Am, Tur. Evidence, sec.401,-p.361). Inasmuch as the notes themselves were admissible evidence .testimony as to their delivery by accused to Captain Lawson and the evidence, although superficial and sketchy, of the method adopted in establishing the identity of a number of them as being the notes paid to Ward was clearly admissible (20 Am.Jur.Evidence, -sec.885, PP»744»745{ 3& C.J., sec.442» p.880, se'c.445» P»882j Underhill's Criminal Evidence - 4^4 EcU-.sec.5l0, P.1032).	■	*	,
9.	There was substantial evidence produced at the trial showing that a larceny of Ward's money and wallet at the time and place alleged had been committed by some person (MCM. 1928, par,149£» p.171). Accused at the time denied that he was the thief and offered an explanation of his actions at the actual time and place of the disappearance of Ward's property. Normally the legal sufficiency of the findings would turn upon the ‘pimple issue of fact as to whether it was accused or some other person who was the thief -whether the prosecution's or defense's evidence should b« believed. This was essentially a question for determination by the court. In the instant case, however, the issue is seriously-complicated by the admission in evidence of oral and written confessions of the accused l&ioh the Board of Review has hereinbefore determined were erroneously admitted because they were secured by promises of favor or partial immunity. The question must therefore be considered as to Aether the admission of these illegal confessions in evidence "injuriously affected the substantial-rights" of the accused within the purview of the 37th Article of War. -
The rule governing such situation has been succinctly stated 1
" It is not necessarily to be implied that the substantial -limits of the acoused >have * been injuriously affected by the admission-of inconpetent testimony} nor is the absence of such prejudice to be implied from the fact that even after the Illegal testimony had been excluded enough legal evidence remains to ‘support a conviction. ' The reviewer must, in justice to the accused, reach the conclusion
14
(105)
that the legal evidence of Itself substantially compelled a conviction. Then indeed, and not until then, can her say that the substantial rights of the accused were not prejudiced by testimony which under the law should have been excluded. C.M.127490 (1919).*
(Underscoring supplied).
• The rule is that the reception' in any substantial quantity of illegal evidence must be held to vitiate a finding of guilty on the " charge to which such evidence relates unless the legal evidence of record is of such quantity and quality as practically to compel in the minds of conscientious and reasonable men the finding of guilty. If such evidence is eliminated from the record and that which remains is not of sufficient probative force as -virtually to compel a finding of guilty, the- finding should be disapproved. C.M.I30415 (1919).* (Dig.Op.JAG, 1912-30,- sec.1284, p.634)
(Underscoring supplied).
The foregoing principles were elaborated in the dissenting opinion of Colonel Archibald King in CM 211829, Parnell. Colonel King's opinion was approved by The Judge Advocate General and formed the basis of the subsequent action of the Secretary of War.
The fate of the accused in the instant case is not to be determined by the simple expedient of separating the legal evidence from the illegal evidence and then evaluating the legal evidence as to its sufficiency to sustain the findings. Such process would be an over simplification and would wholly ignore the actualities of the1 trial. The court had before it both legal and illegal evidence. It i3 an impossibility for the-Board of Review to measure the influence of the illegal evidence upon the; court and should it attempt to do so it would be usurping the functions of the court (CM ETO 132, Kelly and Hyde). A reviewer in considering the record of trial to determine whether the "legal evidence of itself substantially compelled a conviction" cannot ignore the impact upon the mind of the court of the illegal evidence. For this reason the Board of Review in CM 127490 (shpra) particularly qualified its pronouncement by the statement "nor is the absence of such prejudice to be implied from the fact that even after the illegal testimony has been excluded enough legal evidence remains to support a conviction". (Underscoring supplied). An accused has not received a fair and impartial trial if his conviction is based- upon a- body of evidence part of which is legal and which standing; alone possesses only sufficient weight to tip the scales in favor of its sufficiency but does not contain the robust quality of moral certainty and determinativeness, and part of which is illegal composed of confe^^^^j^cji are some of the"strongest forms of proof known to law". The Board of Review/
had this situation in mind -when it adopted the qualification last quoted in its holding CM 1271*90 (supra).
The legal evidence against accused, Pheil, is incriminating, but it does not exclude "any fair and tational hypothesis except guilt"
(lICM, 1?23, par.78a, p.63)» There is evidence which would have justi-r fied the court in concluding that accused came into possession of the inculpating pound notes as a result of gambling and that Ward had parted with them in an earlier game in which accused did not participate.
Further, the evidence identifying these notes as Ward's property rests upon several inferences:(1) that Lieutenant Miller, the disbursing officer of the company, (R16) in paying the company secured pound notes of numerical continuity^ (2) that Lieutenant Lewis in preparing the company pay had the notes arranged in numerical continuity; (3) that in preparing Landon's and Ward's' pay envelopes Lieutenant Miller maintained numerical * continuity of the notes so that Ward's notes were placed in his envelope immediately following the preparation of Landon's envelope.. Lieutenants Lewis and Miller were not witnesses. This crucial element of prosecution's case largely depends upon the following colloquy between the trial judge ' advocate and of Captain Lawson:
»Q.- Did you check the serial numbers of the . notes with the notes that Ward was paid off with?	*
A.- I did. I got the numbers off the notes that the fellow in front of Ward in the pay-roll was paid with and checked the numbers. Nattrally, 'Ward being paid after Corporal Landon, the numbers would . run in consecutive order'.
Q«- How many of the notes coincided? •
A.- About 8 or 9."
(Rll*) (Underscoring supplied).
It is manifest that the vital fact - that "the numbers would run in consecutive order" - was a conclusion of the witness based on the inferences above set forth; it was not a conclusion.which rested upon facts proved at the trial. In connection with this evidence the -court had for consideration the evidence pertaining to accused's opportunity to commit the offense; admissible parts' of the illegal confessions (Par.8b, supra) and the fact that he delivered certain pound notes to Captain Lawson saying that "Ward's iijoney was among the bills and notes". In the opinion of the \Poard. of Review this evidence is not "of such quantity and quality as practically to compel in the minds of conscientious and reasonable men the finding’of guilty". Reason and conscience dictates that it 'contains an inherent uncertainty which prevents it from attaining the weight and dignity of "compelling" evidence; it does not possess the quality of realism demanded to sustain the finding of: guilty. - .
|	It	was in support of this proof that the illegal confessions were
■introduced. , Had the confessions been legally obtained they would have
- 16 -
(107)
removed all reaspnable doubt and 1*16 prosecution’s case would have become invulnerable. The strength aid power of the confessions would have produced a moral certainty of guilt which the minds of “conscientious and reasonable men” would accept without mental equivocation or reservation.
It is the repercussion of this illegal evidence, possessing inherent strength and power, upon the other, but nevertheless equivocal evidence 1 of the prosecution that would influence the court in its weighing and consideration of the other evidence. It was this influence that substantially prejudiced the rights of the accused.
10.	For the foregoing reasons; the Board o'f Review is of the opinion that the admission in evidence of accused's confessions - both oral and written - substantially prejudiced the rights of the accused and consequently the record is legally insufficient to support "the findings and the sentence.
_Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
- 17 -
1st Ind
V®, Eranch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 29 MAR 1944	*	TO:	Commanding
General, 29th Infantry Division, APO 29, U.S. Army.	.	.
1.	In. the case of Corporal LIONEL (N3£E) FrfEIL (33052121;), Company "L", 115th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. I concur in said holding.
2.	Under Article of War 50t? accused may be again brought to trial for the offense charged. Upon rehearing the oral and written confessions, which were illegally secured through promises of partial immunity made by Captain Lawson should not be offered in evidence. This officer’s treatment of the accused in securing his confessions indicates his lamentable lack of knowledge of certain well-known, but fundamental principles in the securing of statements from a suspected person. His promises of partial immunity to the accused destroyed the legal effectiveness of the • confessions. Actually accused received the maximum permissible sentence.
3.	The offense charged involved only personnel of the military establishment of the United States. It was committed within the limits of a United States camp or station. No British civilians were concerned either as parties or witnesses. Under such circumstances the reasons 1 . for the participation by members of the English constabulary in the investigation are not apparent. No provision of the United States of America (Visiting Forces) Act, 19U2 (3 <Sc I4. Geo. .6 c.5l) requires the interposition of the British authorities under such circumstances.
I;. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1201. For convenience of referencejplease place that number in brackets at the end of the order* .
’IetQ-1201);
^^^McNEEL, firigadier General, United States Army, ' Assistant Judge Advocate General. '
- 1 - •
#(109)
