#(111)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations-APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 54-8.
UNITED STATES v.
Second Lieutenant THADD E.- TABB,. (0-885685), Headquarters & Headquarters Squadron, 6th Fighter Wing, VIII Fighter Command,
3 0 M\M
) EIGHTH AIR FORCE.
)
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) AAF Station F-343, ETOUSA.,
)	17 May 1943.
) Sentence) Dismissal.
)
HOLDING of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications )-
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	93rd Article of War.
(Finding of not guilty).
Specification: (Finding of not guilty).
CHARGE II: Violation of the 6lst Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	2nd	Lt. Thadd E. Tabb,
Hq. & Hq. Sq., 6th Fighter Wing, VIII Fighter Command, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his post and duties at AAF Station F-342, from about 0900 hours 16 April 1943 to about 1350 hours 16 April 1943.
- 1 -
.Cr;'T:0FNTiM
COiiFiDfNTIAL
ADDITIONAL CHARGE: Violation of the 96th Article of War, Specification:	In that 2nd Lt. Thadd E. Tabb
Hq. & Hq. Sq. 6th Fighter Wing, VIII Fighter Command, did at AAF Station F-342 on or about 9 April 19A3, willfully, wrongfully and unlawfully convert to his own.use $400,00 of 5.S,. currency, the property of Captain Edgar A. James, Det, Hq & Hq, Sq, 333rd Service Group,
He pleaded guilty to- Charge II and to its Specification, and not guilty to Charge I and the Additional Charge and the Specifications thereunder, and was found not guilty of Charge I and its Specification and guilty of Charge II, the Additional Charge, and of the Specifications thereunder. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing, authority. Commanding General, Eighth Air Force, AAF Station 586, APO 633, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 48, The confirming authority. Commanding General, European Theater, of Operations, confirmed the sentence and pursuant to Article or War 50J-, withheld the order directing the execution thereof,
3,	With reference to the Additional Charge and Specification (willful, wrongful and unlawful conversion to his own use of $400) the evidence for the prosecution shows that on 8 April 1943 shortly before noon, at Station F-342, Captain Edgar A, James, Air Corps, went to the bath house, taking with him a leather money belt containing $400 in United States currency, $1,10 in United States silver currency, two "threepenny bits", a five shilling piece dated 1937 and 2 old Roman coins (R.6-7), Captain James undressed, hung his clothes and .the money-belt on a towel rack, and took a bath. When leaving the bath house he forgot to take his money belt and left it hanging on the towel rack. Upon discovering this fact, he returned to the bath house two hours later but the money belt was not there (R,7-3,13)« The belt was not marked with his name or by any other means of identification (R,ll)« Captain James did not post a notice of his loss bn the bulletin board but did report the fact to the club officer and for six days conducted a private investigation (R,8,12). On 14 April 1943 he reported the loss of the money belt to his commanding officer who ordered Lieutenant Pelton, provost marshal, to search the quarters of accused (R.8,19),
On 14 April First Lieutenant Glenn E, Pelton and Second Lieutenant Samuel A, Williams, both of 989th Corps Military Police, by direction of the commanding officer searched accused's quarters (R.19,29), where Lieutenant Pelton found a leather money belt tucked in the toe of a -flying boot (R,29), Lieutenant Pelton showed the belt to Captain James who identified it as the belt he had lost. In the belt were two old Roman coins, $1,10 in silver and two threepenny bits (R.9-10). No paper currency was found (R.22), The belt found by Lieutenant Pelton was introduced in evidence as "Prosecution Exhibit A" (R,29)« At the trial. Captain James identified the belt
- 2 -
CCM?!OFNT!AL
(113)
as his and also identified the Roman coins contained in the belt (R.10, 36). On 16 April 194-3 Lieutenants Pelton and Williams by order of the commanding officer searched accused*s person in his room (R.30,47). Accused then told them that they would find the money belt in his flying boot and was informed that the belt had already been found (R.25»30). After being warned of his rights, accused told the two officers that he had not stolen any money. He said that he had found'a money belt containing about $4-00 in American money in the washroom of the officers* quarters (R.24,30); he could find no identification marks on the belt and.had, watched the bulletin board for a week to see if the money was advertised as lost but no notice had been posted (R.25,3l)* Accused further stated that he converted $91 of the money into British currency in London in order to pay a debt of 25 pounds; he had changed another $100 with pn American pilot now in Africa and changed another $10 with lieutenant Williams himself. Accused said that he spent most of the balance in small quantities and could give no account of the expenditures (R.24.,28,30).	He had two 5-pound notes left of the money (R.28).
Major V. L. Day, Headquarters Squadron, 6th Fighter Wing, investigating officer, warned accused of his rights prior to his investigation and told him that any statement he made could be used against him. Accused then stated that he had found a money bolt hanging in the bath house and that he had taken it to his room. He kept it for a week expecting the owner of the belt to advertise its loss. As the . loss was not published, he used some of the money for his own purposes, thinking perhaps that **no one cared for it”. He asserted that he did not know he was committing any offense in converting the money (R.33-34)*
On the evening of 9 April 1943 accused was at the Morris Dance Hall, Shrewsbury and halsome American money in his possession. He asked Private First Class Muro P. Duca, 99th Military Police Corps if he knew "a man who turned in American money for English money**. Duca asked accused, who had some American money with him, how much money he had. Accused replied about 100 pounds (R.14-15). Uppn being told by Duca to put the money away, accused put it in his left-hand pocket. All Duca saw were "10*s and 20* s" (R.16-17).
On 13 April 1943 Second Lieutenant Samuel A. Williams, assistant provost marshal (one of the two officers who searched accused*s room and person on 14 and 16 April respectively) saw accused at the Morris Dance Hall at Shrewsbury (R.20-21).	A quart of whiskey was
auctioned and accused's bid for the bottle was successful. Accused asked Lieutenant Williams to change $10 American currency into English money which he did. - Accused took the, $10 from a roll of money "folded in the middle; *** a quarter inch to half an inch thick, bills 10*s or 20*s" (R.21).
Accused pleaded guilty to Charge II and the Specification thereunder (absence without leave) and the evidence shows that he was
0
52277
- 3 -
CCnF;L£HT!Al
(l H)	CONFiQENTIAL
granted leave for 24 hours and overstayed it for the period alleged*
4* For the defense accused, upon being advised of his rights, testified that he became a member of the Royal Air Force 8 September 1941. Jle h&d been a civilian pilot* He transferred to the American Air Corps 9 December 1942 and was assigned "to be with the gunners" but for a long time had nothing to do. After attending a school as a student officer on fighter aircraft, he applied for a transfer and became a mail censor for the 6th Fighter Wing (R.43-44)*
With reference to the alleged absence without leave (Charge II and Specification) on 14 April 1943 accused was granted a 24 hours pass by "verbal order" and he went to London. He missed the midnight train from London which would have enabled him to arrive at his station early in the morning (16 April). He got the "next best conveyance in the morning" (16 April), a train leaving London at 9s05 a.m,, which "brought me in *** a few hours late". (R.45-46).
With respect to the offense alleged in the Additional Charge and Specification (willful, wrongful and unlawful conversion to his own use of $400) accused testified that on 8 April 1943 he found .in the bath house a money belt hanging on a rack. After bathing he took the belt away (R.44). He put the belt in his boot by his bed, as it was his custom to put things in his boots, and carried the money in his blouse. He denied that he was trying to hide the belt, stating that if such was his intent he would have burned the belt in the fireplace. He thought that he would keep the money and see if a reward .was offered for its return. From 8-13 April he watched the bulletin board daily for a report of lost property but no such report appeared (R.44»55).
He recalled telling Private Duca at the Morris Dance Hall that he had approximately 100 pounds or $400 in American currency but testified that it was on the ,13th and not on the 9th of April that the incident occurred (R.44-45).	Also on the 13th of April during an auction at
the Morris Dance Hall, he won a bottle of whiskey for 50 shillings.
As he did not have any English currency, he gave Lieutenant Williams $10 in United States currency for which he received two pounds ten shillings. This was the first occasion on which he had used any of the money (R.45). He thought that if a notice as to the lost money should appear on the bulletin board the following day, he could obtain $10 and make restitution of the amount used to purchase the whiskey (R.55).
On 14 April accused exchanged $100 for English currency with another officer who was going to Africa. On the same day he went on leave to London (R.51) where he changed the balance of the money into English currency. He paid some personal debts which aggregated 25 pounds, loaned 10 to 15 pounds to friends and "blew the rest". With the exception of 15 pounds which he had when he returned to his station he.spent the $400 found in the money belt between the 13th and 16th of April (R.51,54-55).	Although it had occurred to him to report the
m*	mm
O'" r: ' r AiT, . I
(115)
finding of the money to the station commander, "*** sometimes, you know, just on the spur of the moment, you do not think right" (R.56). There was no name on the belt or any mears of identification. He figured the money would belong to him if no one claimed it and "knew of no law it had to be turned in". If someone had announced its loss it would be his duty to turn over the money.	At no time between the 8th and
14th of April did he tell anyone	of	his discovery, nor did	he	believe it
was his "place"	to post a notice	on	the bulletin board. The	last time
he looked at the bulletin board was on 14 April, When in London, as no one had reported the loss accused, who was out of money of his own, figured he "had	waited long enough". He did not consider	it	his duty
to look for the	owner. He said	he	would make restitution	of	the money
(H.56-57).
A letter attesting to the good character of accused and another personal letter addressed to accused, both signed by Bebe Daniels, were introduced in evidence by the defense (R.46-47; Def. Exs. 1,2).
5,	The pleas of guilty to Charge II and to its Specification (absence without leave) are fully supported by the evidence. He was granted leave for 24 hours and overstayed it by the period alleged. Accused in his testimony admitted being absent without leave for this period,
6,	The evidence also fully supports the findings of guilty of the Additional Charge and Specification (wrongful conversion to his own use of $400)* It was clearly established by the evidence for the prosecution and by the testimony of accused himself that after finding the money belt on 8 Aprily^told no one of his discovery and did not take what would have been the normal course of action, namely, to turn over the belt and its contents to proper authority. He did nothing about the matter except to watch the bulletin board for about six days. On 13 April he exchanged $10 for two pounds ten shillings English currency and purchased for that amount a quart of whiskey. On 14 April he exchanged $100 for English currency. He then went to London and as he had no resources of his own, he used 25 pounds to pay personal debts, loaned from 10 to 15 pounds to friends and "blew the rest". He returned to his station with 15 pounds of the money remaining. The evidence thus clearly established the fact that accused disposed of about $340
of the $400 contained in the belt for his own purposes. He had had it all changed to English money. The court was fully warranted in finding accused guilty of the offense of conversion as alleged.
7.	First Lieutenant Herbert R. Talmage detailed as a member of the court, Second Lieutenant Herbert R. Elsas appointed trial judge advocate, and Captain Daniel C. Eberly appointed defense counsel were apparently promoted prior to trial. No statement to this effect is contained in the record of trial. The staff judge advocate, Eighth Air Force has commented in his review upon several other irregularities appearing in the record of trial. Further detailed comments on such irregularities are unnecessary.
- 5 -
GO
A
(116)
CONFIDENTIAL
The defense plaoed in evidence a letter from Bebe Daniels concerning accused's good character. Over strenuous objection by the defense, the court then received evidence offered by the prosecution concerning a former reprimand administered to accused under Article of War 104 for having women in his hotel room, and for a false official statement in connection therewith (R.52-53>59-63; Pros.Ex.D)# The substantial rights of accused were not injuriously affected by any error committed by the court in the admission of such evidence in view of the overwhelming facts establishing accused's guilt of the offense alleged. Accused admitted finding the money belt, changing the $400 contained therein into English currency and using the money for his own purposes.
9.	Accused is 27 years of age. He was ordered to extended active duty 9 December 1942 upon transfer from the Royal Air Force to the Army of the United States. Accused testified that he became a member of the Royal Air Force on 8 {September 1941*
10.	The court was legally constituted. No errors injuriously affecting the rights of accused were committed during the trial* He was found not guilty of Charge I and of the Specification thereunder.
In the opinion of the Board of Review the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge II, the Additional Charge and of the Specifications thereunder, legally sufficient to support the sentence and the action taken by the confirming authority. Dismissal is authorized upon conviction of violation of Article of War 96.
6
(117)
1st Ind.
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 3 0 *)UN \943 to* Commanding General, ETO, U. S. Army, APO 887.
1* In the case of Second Lieutenant THADD E. IABB (0-885685), Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 6th Fighter Wing, VIII Fighter Command, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge II, the Additional Charge and of the Specifications thereunder, legally sufficient to support the sentence and the action taken by the confirming authority, which holding is hereby approved.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement* The file number of the record in this cffice is ETO 54$. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:	(ETO	548)•
Brigadier General, United States Army-Assistant Judge Advocate General.
Incl:
Holding of Board of Review.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 12, ETO, 6 Jul 1943)
#(119)
