#(199)
CC-iv ENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 63-2.
UNITED STATES v.
Second Lieutenant ALBERT CHARLES SUCKON (0-562161), Headquarters and. Headquarters Squadron, 2nd Bombardment Wing.
i- .	4,
)	VIII BOMBER COMMAND.
)
)
)
)	Trial try G.C.M., convened	at
)	AAF Station 123, APO 634-/	°n
)	9 June 1943.
)	Sentence:	Dismissal.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the folloYdng Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In that 2nd It. ALBERT CHARLES
SUCKOW, Headquarters & Headquarters Squadron,
2nd Bombardment Wing, AAF. Station No. 108, did, at AAF. Station No.123, on or about 2300 hours, 22 May, 1943, commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously, unlawfully, and ag&inst the order of nature having carnal connection with a male human being, towit, with Private David Fenton, 1085th Ordnance Company (Avn), by means of taking the penus of said Private Fenton in his, said Lt. Suckow's, mouth.
Accused pleaded guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
He was sentenced to be dismissed from the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor for five years. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General of
CUN
Cv."<; i^uNllnL
(200)
the VIII Bomber Command, approved the findings of guilty but only so much of the sentence as provided for dismissal from the service and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War AS. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence as approved by the convening authority, withheld the order directing the execution of the sentence and forwarded the record for examination under Article of War 50&.
3.	Certain facts of this case appear from the prosecution*s
evidence to be as follows:	Accused	and	First	Lieutenant Richard T.
Westenbarger had been acquainted some two or three months (R 8). They roomed together over the Officers* Club located in the Officers’ Mess building, Horshkm Street, Faith, England (R 9)'. A dance was held at the club on the night of 22 May 1943 *(R 6). About 12' o’clock midnight, Sergeant, then Corporal, John P. Karoly, Lieutenant Westenbarger (who declared he knew something was wrong with accused (R.9)) both of Headquarters 2nd Bombardment Wing and a Lieutenant Armstrong, went upstairs (R.7) "during the time we thought Lieutenant Suckow was up there" \R 6). On opening the door to the room used for trunk and baggage storage and turning on the light, they saw accused on his knees over an enlisted* man, Private Fenton, the latter was stretched out on his back on the floor with his breeches open (R 7,10). His pants were down and his drawers were showing (R 10). His penis was not observed. Accused arose and asked what was going on. Lieutenant Westenbarger sent him to his room. He got Private Fenton off the floor and told him to arrange his clothes and go back downstairs (R ll). At the trial First Lieutenant G, IS. Bodenheimer, Headquarters 2nd Bombardment Wing (R ll), Assistant Trial Judge Advocate was called to the stand as a witness for' the^ prosecution and testified that on 7 Joins 1943 he was returning accused from the hospital at Exeter to Station 123, when accused, after being advised that he need not say anything, voluntarily "admitted his guilt in this case (to him) and expressed his consternation that the affair had occurred" (R 12,13).
Accused presented no defense and elected to remain silent.
4.	The only irregularities occurring in the trial of this case have been adequately discussed in the review of the theater staff judge advocate. They are not prejudicial to any substantial rights of accused in view of the plea of guilty and of the evidence disclosed.
5.	The record of trial shows that the Trial Judge Advocate particularly asked accused if he understood that by entering his plea of "Guilty" he admitted the allegation of facts set forth in the Specification and that he placed himself in the position whereby the court might impose any sentence upon "him.deemed fit within the maximum fixed by the Manual for Courts-Martial; if he understood he had the right to plead "Not Guilty41 but nevertheless wished to enter the plea of guilty. The accused*s response was: "Tes, sir".
- 2 -
pnMrfr.cMTi.ii
CONFIDENTIAL	(201)
The prosecution then proceeded to introduce evidence in support of the Charge and Specification. It must be frankly admitted that the evidence fails to establish the necessary fact of entrance of Fenton’s penis into accused’s mouth (CM ETO 339, Gage). It is apparent that the Trial Judge Advocate realizing the proof was deficient in this' regard attempted to supply the necessary evidence by means of Lieutenant Bodenheimer’s testimony covering accused’s extra-judicial admission of guilt. As pointed out by the theater staff judge advocate Lieutenant Bodenhe'imer’s statement: "He (meaning accused) admitted his guilt in this case, and expressed his consternation that the affair had occurred" (Underscoring supplied) is a mere conclusion of law and is not a statement of fact. (Walker v. McLoud, 204 U.S. 302 ; 51 L, Ed., 495;
22 C.J., sec.731, pp.634-637). Hence, its probative value is negative.
There is no requirement of 'law that evidence must be taken upon a plea of guilty; rather such evidence is intended to assist the court in fixing the punishment, and the reviewing authority in his consideration of the case. The finding of guilty may be supported solely on the plea of guilty. (Winthrop’s Military Law and Precedents, Reprint, pp.278-279; CM 212197, Rocker).
"A plea of guilty does not exclude the taking of evidence, and in the event that there be aggravating or extenuating circumstances not clearly shown by the specification and plea, any available and admissible evidence as to such information should be introduced." (MGM;
1928, par.70, p.54).
It is clearly indicated that accused fully understood the meaning and effect of his plea, which was entered after proper explanation thereof had been'made to him by the trial judge advocate. Sufficient competent evidence was introduced to apprise the court of the circumstances under which the offense was committed. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is'legally sufficient'to Support the findings of guilty.
6.	Although not admitted as evidence during the trial, there is attached to the record'of trial and marked "Prosecution’s Exhibit 1", a copy of the proceedings of a Board of Officers, 36th Station Hospital, dated 31 May 1943, convened in the case of accused. Among the findings, was one that accused "is a sexual pervert, or a true sodomist."
A member of the court requested the presentation of the report involving accused from the 36th Station Hospital. The prosecution objected on the ground that it was irrelevant and immaterial and that it was not proper evidence. The accused stipulated with the prosecution that he was sent to the hospital first, to have a mental examination and second, to get him away from his home station during trial. The Law
- 3 -
612
CONFIDENTIAL
Member declared that the reason the question was raised as to the report was -to make it available to the defense and ruled that it did not have any bearing on the case at that point of trial (R 13). After a recess, the prosecution offered to stipulate that "Prosecution’s Exhibit 1" was the original report of a Board of Officers of the 36th Station Hospital convened under the provisions of paragraph 35c, II.C.M,, 1928 and Memorandum No. W6 15/4/43 War Department, AGO Washington and pursuant to paragraph 2, GO #35, Hqrs., 36 Station Hospital in accused’s case. The defense declined to agree to the stipulation. As a consequence the report was not admitted in evidence (R 14).
The accused raised no issue as to his mental capacity to commit the offense. The medical report was primarily intended for use by the appointing authority (M.C.M., 1928, par.35c, p.26). The trial judge advocate was correct ir/efusing'to introduce it in evidence and the Law Member acted rightly in sustaining the position of the trial judge advocate. However, the latter by his offer tp Stipulate it in evidence made it available for the defense if it elected to raise the question of accused's mental responsibility. Inasmuch as the defense refused to stipulate and thereafter closed its case without presentation of further evidence, there was no prejudice to the rights of accused. Oppositely, the rights of the accused were protected by this procedure.
7.	Among the accompanying papers is a letter from the accused directed to the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations and to the Commanding General, 8th Air Force, complaining of the "improper administration of military justice" in connection with his trial, together with certificates of the facts and circumstances connected with the trial of accused by the officers referred to In the complaint. The extraneous issues raised thereby were for consideration by the approving and confirming authorities and not for the Board of Review. It is evident that proper consideration was given thereto.
8.	Accused is 23 years of age. He was appointed a Second Lieutenant in the Air Corps, 16 September 1942 (accused states his appointment was effective 5 August rather than 16 September 1942) and placed on active duty for the duration of the war and six months, on 16 September 1942.
9.	The court was legally constituted. No errors affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. For the reasons1 hereinbefore stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
'/y y_____
~7n7TZ.
Judge Advocate
VJD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Arm;'-,
TO: Commanding
1,	In the case of Second Lieutenant ALBERT CHARLES SUCKOW (0-562161), Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 2nd Bombardment iYing, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, wlaich holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^', you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this
office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 612. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets jai the end of the order:	(ETO	612).
Brigadier General, United States Arcgs, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 16, ETO, 3 Aug 1943)

#(205)
