#(29)
WAR DEPARTMENT In the Office of The Judge Advocate General Sot the
EuropeaiV Thfeater of Operations APO 871,
Board of Review ETO 29.
UNITEfi STATES
Private WILLIAM E. DAVIS, 380U2586, 5l8th Engineer Company (WS)
OCT 1 0 *942
Trial of G. C. M. convened at Victoria Barracks, Belfast, N.I. August 31, 19U2. Dishonorable Discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances and confinement at hard labor for eight (8) years Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, designated as the place of confinement.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN AND IDE, Judge Advocates.
The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined and is held by the Board of Review to be legally sufficient to support the sentence.
Accused was convicted of voluntary manslaughter under the 93rd Article of War. His age is 23 years. His length of military service is one (1) year, three (3) months. ■ The character of his service is excellent. He suffered one (1) previous conviction under the 96th Article of War for breaking quarentine restrictions. Pursuant to the policy declared in G.O. 37* ETOUSA, 9 September 19li2, par. 5, c and d, the return of the accused to the United States and the-execution of the sentence to dishonorable discharge is authorized inasmuch as the accuse-3 was convicted of a crime (manslaughter) which makes it undesirable to retain him in the military service and his sentence is for more than three years, viz 8 years. Confinement in the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe,
Ohio is authorized (See: War Department Directive, 26 February 19U1 AG (2~6—Ul) E«).
(30)
1st Ind.
_	«	/“	•	r,	A	^
0C i i
J.A.G.O., ETOUSA, A.P.O. 871	To	the	Commanding	General,
V Army Corps (Reinf) A.P.O. 30$, U. S. Army.
1. In the case of Private TJilliam E. Davis, 330lj.2!?86, f>l3th Engineer Company (WS), attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War £0^, you now have authority to order the'execution of the sentence.
' 2. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding, and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 29* For convenience of reference, please place that number in brackets at the end of the published order.
(ETO 29.)
#(31)
