#(383)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1073
UNITED. STATES )
)
■j
Private JOHN J. SANDERS	)
(356042A6), 254-th Port	)
Company, Transportation Corps, )
)
)
)
)
■ HOLDING by the BOARD RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and
13, DEC 1943
EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPIX, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.E., convened at Grimsby, Lincolnshire, England 8 November 194-3. Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
OF REVIEW
SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review,
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 93d Article of War.
SPECIFICATION:	In	that Private John J. Sanders,
254-th Port Company, did, at or near Immingham,
Lincolnshire, England, on or about October 1,
194-3, with intent to commit' a felony, viz, rape, commit an assault upon Irene Mathews,, of Immingham, Lincolnshire, England, by wil-• fully and feloniously striking the said Irene Eathews in the face- with his fist, and by placing his hand under her clothes against .	her	person.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the.service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for eight years. The revie»ving authority approved the sentence, reduced the period of confine-
-1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
meat to five years, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe,
Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record, of trial for action pursuant, to the provisions of Article of 'war 50%,
3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority.-
A. The serial number of accused a3 it appears on the charge sheet' and in the action of the reviewing authority is 356041^6. The company commander of accused. Captain Charles YY. Gilmore, Transportation Corps, 498th Port Battalion, testified that accused's serial number as shown on his service record is 3560413& (Rll). The personal clothing of soldiers were marked with the last four digits .of their serial numbers. The number on the trousers worn by accused on the morning following the commission of the offense was 41^6 (R12). . Informal inquiry made by the machine record unit, SOS, ETOUSA, to the personnel officer of the 498th Port Battalion discloses that the serial number of accused as. shown on his service record is 356041^6.■
5.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 24 years of age. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of assault with intent to commit rape- (18 USG>- sec.455).	As accused is under 31 years
of age and the sentence as approved:by the, reviewing authority is under ten years, the designation-of the Federal.Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio is correct (war Department Circular #291, 10 November 1943> sec,V,3a).
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(385)
CONFIDENTIAL -
1st Ind.
13 DEC 1Q4Q
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETQUSA, ■	TO: Commanding
Officer, Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 517, u.S. Army,
1,	In the case of Private JOHN J. SANDERS (356O414.6), 254-th. Port Company, Transportation Corps, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5U2' you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order, are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1073, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1073).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General, ; •
i
I
*
#(387)
