#(161)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
eto 132.	2	0	JAN	1945
UNITED STATES v.
Private JOHN J. KELLY, (14000076), and Private EDWARD F. HYDE,( 6982099), both of Company BBn, 392nd Port Battalion, Transportation Corps.
)	UNITED STATES ARMY	FORCES
)	IN ICELAND.
)
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) Camp Curtis, Iceland, 26 ) September 1942* Sentence*
) Dishonorable discharge,
) forfeiture of all pay and ) allowances and confinement at ) hard labor for five years.
) United States Disciplinary ) Barracks.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the cane of Privates John J. Kelly and Edward F. Hyde has been examined in the Office of the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations.
2.	The accused were tried upon the following Charge and Specifications:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	94-th	Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	Private	JOHN	J.	KELLY,	Company	nBn
392nd Port Battalion Transportation Corps and Private EDWARD F. HYDE Company ”Bn, 392nd Port Battalion, Transportation Corps, acting jointly and in pursuance of a common cause and intent, did, at various times and dates between July 1 and August 31, 1942, at Port of Debarkation, U.S. Army Forces, APO 860, c/o Postmaster,
New York, N.Y., feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his own use and benefit subsistence stores and supplies as follows:
^Ntl'JhNUAL
Pork Sausage - 6 Applesauce - 3 Meat & Veg. Stew Sweet Cora - 8 Carrots, Dried -Bacon	-- 2
Raisins - 1
cans © $*65 cans ® $.31 - 8 cans @ $.31 cans @ $.08 2 cans @ $.30 parts © $3*36 part © $2.50
Sugar	- 60 lbs. © $.05
Eggs	- 12 doz. © $.35
Grapefruit - 60 lbs. © $.06 Coffee	-	1	can © $3.23
Graham Crackers - 36 boxes $.10 Pineapple ■* 135 cans © $.14 Cabbage Shreds - 10 lbs. © $.70
of the value of $61,30, the property of the United States furnished and intended for the.military service thereof, intrusted to them, the said.Private JOHN J. KELLY and Private EDWARD F. HIDE by the Base Quartermaster, U.S. Army forces.
Specification 2:	In that Private JOHN J. KELLY, Company WB",
392nd Port Battalion Transportation Corps and Private EDWARD F. HYDE, Company "B", 392nd Port Battalion, Transportation Corps, acting jointly and in pursuance of a common cause and intent did, at various times and dates between July 1 and August 31, 1942, at the Port of Debarkation, U.S. Army Forces, AP0 860, c/o Postmaster,
New York, N.Y., fraudulently and unlawfully sell and deliver to Adalsteinn Snaebjomsson, Heinrich Karlsson and divers other persons not authorized to purchase and receive the same subsistence stores and supplies as follows:
Pork Sausage - 6 cans ® $.65 Applesauce - 3 cans © $.31 Meat & Veg. Stew - 8 cans © $.31 Sweet Corn - 8 cans © $.08 Carrots, Dried -Bacon Raisins
2 cans © $.30
-	2 parts © $3.36
-	1 part © $2.50
Sugar	-	60	lbs.	©	$.05
Eggs	-	12	doz.	©	$.35
Grapefruit -	60	lbs.	©	$.06
Coffee	-	1	can ©	$3.23
Graham Crackers - 36 boxes © $.10 Pineapple - 135 cans © $. 14-Cabbage Shreds - 10 lbs. © $.70
of the value of $61.30, the property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof, they the said Private JOHN J. KELLY and Private EDVJARD F. HYDE not having the legal right and authority to sell and deliver1' the same.
They each pleaded not guilty to, and were found guilty of the Charge and Specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced as . to either of accused. They were sentenced to dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for five years. The reviewing authority approved the sentences but suspended the dishonorable discharge until the release of each accused, respectively, from confinement; designated the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, as the place of confinement but directed that each accused be confined in the U.S. Army Forces Prison Stockade'until further orders.
The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Order No, 84, Headquarters, U. S. Army Forces (in Iceland), AP0 860, c/o Postmaster, New York City, N.Y., dated 17 October 1942.
(163)
3.	The evidence as far as pertinent to the first Specification shows:	Both of accused were members of a wharfage detail engaged in
unloading foodstuffs, property of the United States and intended for use in the military service thereof. Both of accused were checkers whose sole duty was to count the various cases of good3 as they were loaded on the truck at the pier and furnish the truck drivers with the correct tally sheets to accompany the delivery of the goods at the warehouse. They were charged with having placed on certain trucks cases of goods not shown on the check sheet. The drivers paid them for such untallied cases of goods and would then make disposition of same on their own accounts. Accused retained the proceeds of sales. They were charged and convicted of the embezzlement of certain of these goods which were found by the police in the home of Adalsteinn Snaebjomsson, one of the truck drivers who claimed he purchased same from Private Hyde, one of the accused.
The evidence sufficiently proves that accused committed an offense with respect to the government goods involved; but the serious question in the case is whether that offense wa3 embezzlement, of which they were convicted, or larceny.
"In Moore v. United State3, 160 U.S. 268, the court defines embezzlement as ’the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom such property has been intrusted, or into whose hands it has lawfully come. It differs from larceny in the fact that the original taking of the property was lawful, or with the consent of the owner, while in larceny.the felonious intent must have existed at the time of the taking'." (CM.198485; Dig.Op. JAG.,*
1912-40, par.452(3), pg.335).
"The gist of the offense is a breach of trust.
The trust is one arising from some fiduciary relationship existing between ths owner and the person converting the property, and springing from an agreement, expressed or implied, or arising by operation of law. The offense exists only where the property has been taken or received by virtue of such relationship." (CM.211810. Houston. Jr.). (Cf: CM.211866,
Karva.lna and Hutton).
"Larceny is the taking and carrying away, by trespass, of personal property which the trespasser knows to belong either generally or specially to another, with intent to deprive such owner permanently of his property therein.
(Clark)." (M.C.M., 1928, pg.171).
fin.
'■r-w ki
3
CONFIDENTIAL
(164)
"Possession is the present right and power to absolutely control a thing and not only includes those things of which one has actual manual grasp, but also extends to those things that are in his house or on his land or in the actual manual care and keeping of his servants or agents,****" (il.C.M., 1928, par.l49g, pg.172),
"1, Possession and custody - are in this branch of the law widely distinguishable. There can be * no trespass against the custody; it is always against the possession, and it can be committed as well by the custodian as by any other person. For example, - 2. Servant - When a master's goods in possession come within the handling of the servant, the latter has in law no more than a custody of them, the possession remaining in the former. Therefore the servant may commit larceny of them; as, if a clerk in a store feloniously removes goods from it, this is larceny.****" (Bishop's New Criminal Law, sec.823).
"So where defendant, employed as a stevedore to unload nitrate owned by the government, from vessels and load it into cars for further shipment, after it was so loaded caused certain of the cars to be billed to private consumers, to whom he sold the contents, his c£fense was larceny, and not embezzlement." (Tredwell v U.S. (C.C.A. Va.1920) 266 F.350, certiorari denied (1920) 40 S. Ct. 587, 253, U.S. 496, 64 L. Ed. 1031).
In United States v. Holland (Fed. Case 15,378,
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, 1843) the charge was larceny on the high seas of foodstuffs, property of the owners of a certain merchant vessel on which defendant was steward and cook ofthe crew's mess. In that capacity, certain foodstuffs were delivered to him, some of which he sold to immigrant passengers to his own profit. The court - HELD - the owner is deemed to retain possession of the foodstuffs, and there may have been a constructive taking from him. The question for the jury is whether that taking was felonious. The verdict was guilty.
In the present case, the accused were not, it is true, domestic servants, but were nevertheless servants as that term is
- 4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(165)
used in legal parlance - one employed by the master in the master's business whom the master may direct in the details of his work.
Accused were not in charge of unloading the ships or of any part thereof but were only subordinates employed, on the temporary work of checking the number of cases of goods placed on each truck. Possession in this case lay in the Government (the master) and the servant's conversion of the articles constituted a trespass and their offense was larceny and mo^mbezzlement, (Cf: CM.220398 (1942), Bui, JAG, Jan-June 1942, sec.452 (10), pg.22).
The "Board quotes and makes the basis of its decision the passage from the Manual for Courts-Martial, paragraph 149g, page 172 a3 follows:
"**** Where a servant receives goods or property from his master to use, care for, or employ for a specific purpose in his service, the master retains possession and the servant has the custody only and may commit larceny of them. A person, then, has the 'custody' of property, as distinguished from the •possession', where, as in the case of a servant's custody of his employer's property, he merely has the care and charge of it for one who still retains the right to control it, and who, therefore, is in the possession (i.e., constructive possession)
of the property.****"
The present case falls squarely within the foregoing definition of "custody" as distinguished from "possession". The Board is therefore of the opinion that there exists, as to specification one, a fatal variance between the allegation of embezzlement and the proof of larceny, and that for this reason the record is legally insufficient to support the finding,
4.	The second specification alleges accused, jointly and in pursuance of a common cause and intent, did fraudulently and unlawfully sell certain property (particularly described therein) of the United States furnished and intended for the military use thereof, to various persons not authorized to purchase such goods. The proof as shown by the record of trial is in substance as follows:
A stipulation, accepted by the court, that goods of the identical number and kind listed in the specification were found in the storeroom of the home of Adalsteinn Snaebjomsson, driver of vehicle No. R-626, by representatives of the Criminal Investigation Department of Reykjavik and a second stipulation that other certain goods not described in the specification and of a much smaller quantity and consisting of only two items, were similarly found in the home of Heinrich Karlsson, driver of vehicle No. R-2079,
Reykjavik,
5
mnriFhimi
(166)
. i * V : * li- U; 1
Heinrich Karlsson, driver of truck R-2079, was sworn as a witness for the prosecution and testified he bought some cases "from the accused" without knowing at first what they contained.
"I noticed that the driver of the car which was ahead of me in this place ms speaking with a soldier, who was checking, about there should be loaded more cases on the truck than is actually registered on the note and when it was my turn to be loaded, I asked the soldier if I could get something in the same way as the other one did to which the soldier answered ’Yes’." The witness identified both accused but knew only Kelly by name (R.7). He "spoke at first with one of them but I think later the other one arrived and wrote a bill out and received the money." He bought from the soldiers but once and paid the money to Kelly (R.10), and these were the same goods that were found in his home (R.8), Kelly got all the money. He asked the other man if he could get the cases and he said "that it was O.K".
Adalsteinn Snaebjornsson, driver of vehicle No. R-626, sworn as a witness for the prosecution stated that on the docks he had bought from the accused, Hyde, the goods which had been taken away from him by the police. He purchased goods possibly five times (R.ll) and identified the various articles enumerated in the specification (R.12). He had no dealings with any other soldiers (R.13).
Second Lieutenant Francis T. Zober, sworn as a witness for the prosecution, identified both of accused as dock checkers and members of a detail of which he was in charge, A dock checker.is supposed to make out three tickets - a cargo report - showing an accurate check on the stuff going on each truck. He keeps one ticket and gives two tickets to the driver. The tickets retained by the checker are collected from him every hour. At the depot the driver turns in one ticket when his vehicle is unloaded and has the other signed by the party receiving the property and then the driver returns the signed ticket to the dispatchers by whom it is then matched up with the one kept by the checker (R.15). During the night shift of August 20, 1942, witness learned that accused, Hyde, had asked one of the checkers "when certain sweet articles were coming out, such as canned cherries, pineapple and things of that nature, and that he had made 1000 kronur" (R.16). Witness then found a difference of four cases on the last load accused, Hyde, bad checked (R.7). He said Hyde told him he had been doing this for about a month (R.18) and asked witness the penalty (R.19) for it. -Accused Hyde also admitted to Lieutenant Penninga "He had made dealings with civilian truck drivers" and detailed the method of operation (R.21). Accused Kelly also told the witness the "very same story as Private Hjyde"****(R.22).
- 6 -
aONfIDEHTIM.
(167)
Private First Class Virgil C. King sworn as a prosecution witness said on August 20, 1942, Hyde wanted him to assist in selling goods by pointing oxit certain boxes when they were Tinloading, like sweet stuff, foods, and said he made money the night before selling to the Icelanders (R.24).
At the conclusion of the testimony the prosecution announced: "The prosecution has no further testimony to offer.
However, additional witnesses are available if the court desires them called who will confirm the testimony that has already been presented but the prosecution feels it would just be a repetition of what has already been testified to.n (The president indicated that the court did not desire any witness called).
5.	The allegation in Specification 2 of the period during which the accused effected these illegal sales of Government property -"between July 1 and August 31, 1942" - is unobjectionable and has been approved. (CM.130989 (1919), Dig. Ops. JAG, 1912-1940, sec.428(10), pg.297; Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents (Reprint, 1920)
sec.197, pg.138). It is sufficiently certain "to advise the accused of the particular act of offense intended to be alleged, and enable him to plead a former conviction or acquittal if subsequently brought to trial on account of the same act."
6.	The record shows, by stipulation, the value of the goods charged to have been sold and by inference that the merchandise was government property. The record also shows that the exact quantity. value and kind of merchandise which the accused are charged with selling is the exact quantity and kind found in the home of Adalsteinn Snaebjomsson (R.ll, 12, 13, 14). There is also specific proof that Hyde effected delivery of the items of food-stuffs to Snaebjornsson which are described in Specification 2 and which were found in his house (R.ll, 12). Proof is also complete that Snaebjomsson paid Hyde 90 Kronur for these goods (R.ll). In the opinion of the Board of Review the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 2 as against the accused, Hyde. (M.C.M.,1928, par.150 i, pg.185).
7.	The determination of the complicity of the accused Kelly,
in the unlawful sale of the items described in Specification 2 presents an entirely different situation. The function and scope of authority of the Board of Review, sitting in an appellate capacity is indicated as follows:
"Convictions by a court-martial may rest on inferences but may not be based on conjecture.
A scintilla of evidence - the 'slightest particle or trace', is not enough. There must be sufficient proof of every element of an offense to satisfy a reasonable man when guided by normal human experience and common sense
7
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTS
(168)
"springing from such experience." (CM.223336(l942),
Bui. JAG.,Vol.I, No.3, sec.422, pg.159).
"In the discharge of its statutory function, the Board’s duty is to follow the above principle not to weigh the evidence, not to substitute its opinion as to the guilt of accused for that of the court and the reviewing authority, not to let its sympathy for the unfortunate accused run away with its judgment, but solely to determine whether ’there is some substantial evidence tending to prove each element of each offense.' "
(CM.211586, Gerber).
In his indorsement on the holding of the Board of
Review in CM 203511, Wedmore. the conclusions of which
indorsement were approved by the President, the Judge
Advocate General said:
"The court and the reviewing authority must be satisfied of the guilt of an accused beyond a reasonable doubt. However, the Board of Review and The Judge Advocate General in the examination of records of trial, except in cases which require approval or confirmation of the sentence by the President, do not weigh the testimony to determine whether the offense has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt, but must be satisfied that there is some substantial evidence tending to prove each element of each offense (CM 152797, Veins ****".)
"In the exercise of its judicial power of appellate review, the Board of Review treats the findings below as presumptively correct, and examines the record of trial to determine whether they are supported in all essentials by substantial evidence. To constitute itself a trier of fact on appellate review, and to determine the probative sufficiency of the testimony in a record of trial by the trial court standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt would be a plain usurpation of power and frustrative of justice. C.M.192609,
Rehearing (1930)"• (Dig.Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.408(4), pg.259).
Under the above authorities it is therefore the duty and responsibility of the Board of Review to determine from the record whether there is some substantial evidence tending to prove that accused, Kelly, either actually participated with Hyde in the unlawful sale and delivery of Government property (described in Specification 2) to Snaebjornsson or that Hyde and Kelly were acting by a preconcerted arrangement in the illegal sale of Government property so that Hyde's sale and delivery of the
. g - 5MF/DENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(169)
merchandise to Snaebjornssc.i was the joint act of both Hyde and Kelly,
Snaebjornsson testified as follows:
"Q, Mr. Snaebjornsson, do you know the accused?
A, Yes,
Q. Would you tell me their names?
A. I don't know the names of each of them,
Q. How do you identify.them?
A, I had dealings with the one who is sitting nearest to us, (Indicating),
Prosecution: The witness indicates Private Hyde,
Q, What dealings did you have with the accused that you Identified? (Underscoring supplied),
A, I got from him the goods which had been taken from me by the police (E.11),
Q. Did you ask the soldiers to buy the goods or did they offer to sell them to you?
A, I asked the soldiers to sell the goods to me, but the soldiers were rather reluctant, I asked them twice and three times (R,12), (Underscoring supplied),
Q, Did you offer to pay the soldier for the goods?
A, We did not speak about that before he let me have the goods,
Q, Did you have any dealings with any other soldiers? A. No,
Q, Did you have dealings with both soldiers sitting here? (Underscoring supplied),
A, The other dealings came to nothing,
Q, Were you going to buy something from the other soldier?
A, Yes, I intended to do so (R,13),
The "other soldier" referred to in the last question is clearly identified as Kelly by the foregoing interrogation.
Continuing the witness testified:
"Q. Well, why did you not buy anything from him?
A, Because I was put in prison for seven days,
Q, Had this other soldier spoken to you about purchasing government goods?
A, He had .lust mentioned it. (Underscoring supplied), Q, Did you at any later time buy anything from this soldier?
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(170)
L -.h i
"A, I haven't worked for the Army since.
Questions by defense;
Q. Who mentioned buying goods from the other soldier?
A. I did. (R.14).
While the answer to the second question of the last quoted colloquy is by no means clear-cut it reasonably implies that the witness and Kelly had conversed on the subject. The first question and answer clearly points out the reason why no goods were purchased by the witness direct from Kelly,
Again referring to Lieut. Penninga's testimony, as it bears upon Kelly’s complicity in the sales to Snaebjomsson, we find the following;
"Q. What did you say, to Private Hyde and what did he say to you after having been warned about the 24th Article of War?
A, He told me that he had made dealings with civilian truck drivers, and the methods of operation was that he was a checker checking the loads that these civilian trucks hauled.
He would make out on the trucking cargo ticket a less number than the figure actually noted on the truck, and during the trips from the docks to the depot the driver would drop the surplus and use that to his own advantage and for this the price varied. I'm quite sure he told me that some of the time he wasn't paid and other times he did get paid for these surplus articles that these drivers did get,
Q. Did you have occasion to question Private Kelly?
A. Yes. I did.
Q, Before questioning him, what did you do?
A. I also warned him of his rights under the 24th Article of War.
Q. After having been warned of his rights under the 24th Article of War what did he say?
A.- He told me the very same story as Private Hvde. as to the method of operation, in that he had also sold and given these numerous truck drivers more than what had been entered on the trucking cargo ticket, (R.21-22).
(Underscoring supplied).
While the goods sold to Karlsson are not identified in the specification, Karlsson's testimony may properly be considered as evidence of the preconcerted plan of the two accused. Karlsson testified as follows;
KJJ
10
(171)
SAL
"Q. Will you tell the court the circumstances of buying those cases?
A, Yes, I noticed that the driver of the car which was ahead of me in this place was , speaking with a soldier, who wa3 checking, about there should be loaded more cases on the truck than is actually registered on the note, and when it was my turn to be loaded,
I asked the soldier if I could get something in the same wav as the other one did to which the soldier answered "Yes".
Q. Was this soldier one of these in court here?
A. Yes.
Q. Did you speak to both of them or just to one of them?
A. I spoke at first with one of them but I think later the other one arrived and wrote a bill out and received the money" (R.8).
(Underscoring supplied).
"Q. How much did you pay the soldier for these cases?
A. Twenty kronur. (Underscoring supplied).
W U W -V K W W V M V V u	w
"Q. Did you see these two soldiers for the first time in the Icelandic court?
A. No, I often seen them on the docks, (R.8).
, X XX » X-X-X* XX » X XKX »
"Q. To whom did you pay the twenty kronurs?
A. To Kelly.
"Questions try law member:
Q. Was there another man present?
A. Yes.
Q, What did the other man say to you?
A. I asked him if I could get the cases.
Q. And what did he say?
A. He said there was nothing in the way, that it was O.K.,that I could get the other cases.
Questions by Captain Barrett:
Q, Did the other man receive any of this twenty kronur to your knowledge?
A. No, Kelly got all the money." (R.10). (Underscoring supplied).
The Specification alleges that the offense was committed "between July 1 and August 31, 1942." The accused were confined in the U.S. Army Stockade on 20 Aug 1942. The charges were preferred 2 Sept 1942. Karlsson testified he was employed bv the Government as a truck driver in August or September 1942 (R.7). Lieut. Zober testified that both accused were detailed as dock-checkers between
-U
11
(172)
btlw I'JLII 1 it...
July 1 and August 20, 1942 (R*15), and that on August 20, he investigated Hyde's actions and discovered he had placed 164 cases of rations on a truck and had recorded only 160 cases on the cargo report and he then placed him under arrest (R.17). On August 20th Hyde admitted to Lieut. Zober he had been carrying on his illegal practices for about a month (R.18). Lieut. Penninga stated that on Aiigust 20th he interviewed' both accused and they confessed their misconduct to him (R.21, 22). .In this interview Kelly informed Lieut. Penninga "that he had sold and given these truck drivers more than what had been entered on the trucking cargo ticket" (R.22).
It was the particular function of the Court to weigh the evidence, determine the credibility of witnesses and resolve conflicts in the testimony. With the witnesses ’>efore it and the accused present in the court-room the court was certainly in a more advantageous position than is now occupied by the Board of Review in passing upon these matters. As shown by the authorities above quoted it is not the function of the Board of Review in such situation to substitute its own opinion for the conclusion of the Court, even though the Board of Review would have reached a conclusion differing from that of the court. The Board of Review is not a trier of facts; it is an authority created by Congress possessing powers of appellate review. Sitting in its appellate capacity, the Board of Review performs its full duty and responsibility by a careful and detailed examination of the record for the purpose of determining whether there is any substantial evidence to support the findings of the Court.
It is manifest that Snaebj omsson had some conversations with Kelly concerning the purchase of Government supplies; that in the sale to Karlsson both Hyde and Kelly participated, and.that accused, Kelly, in his statement to Lieut. Penninga admitted the same method of unlawful operation as did Hyde. Further, the evidence establishes that both Hyde and Kelly were carrying on their illegal operations coincidently, and within the period alleged in the specification. Under this state of the record the Board of Review is of the opinion that there is substantial evidence to support the finding of Kelly's guilt under Specification 2, and that it is not authorized to replace such finding with its own interpretation of the evidence even should it be in conflict with those of the court.
8.	For the reasons stated the Board of Review holds that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of the accused Hyde and Kelly as to Specification 1 but legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of accused Hyde and Kelly as to Specification 2 and the sentence. The sentence
12
CONFiUENllAl
(173)
is the maximum that can he imposed upon the accused. The court was legally constituted and no error injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed at the trial.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
- 13 -
2nd Ind
23 January 1943
J.A.G.O., ETOUSA., APO 871, U.S. Army.
TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA., APO 887, U.S. Army,
1.	In the case of Private JOHN J. KELLY (14000076), and Private EDWARD F. HYDE (6982099), both of Company "B", 392nd Port Battalion, Transportation Corps, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review. The accused were charged with the violation of the 94th Article of War. Specification 1 charges the crime of embezzlement of certain described property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof and intrusted to the accused. By Specification 2 the accused are charged with jointly and in pursuance of a common purpose and intent of fraudulently and knowingly selling and delivering property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof without legal right or authority. The property involved
was certain food stores and identical items are described in both specifications.
2.	The record shows that both accused during the period between 1 July 1942 and 20 August 1942 were in a special detail engaged in unloading cargo from ships docked at Reykjavik, Iceland; said cargo consisting of military stores owned by the United States.
The particular duties of accused required them to place on motor trucks certain items of the cargo. The trucks were driven by civilians who were Icelandic subjects. The particular items of merchandise described in the specifications were found in the home of one Snaebjornsson, a truck driver. He purchased same from the accused and it was admitted that it was government property. In loading the trucks it was the duty of the accused-^tg^et forth correctly on tally sheets the items of merchandile^on the trucks.
In this particular instance the accused placed the described merchandise on Snaebjornsson*s truck without making record of same on the tally sheets. The relationship of the accused to the government and the performance of their duties in regard to unloading and distributing the cargo make it obvious that they were not guilty of embezzlement but were guilty of larceny. Hence, the prosecution's case failed as to Specification 1 because of a fatal variance, viz: embezzlement was charged and larceny was proved. As to Specification 2, and the Charge, the evidence sustains the findings.
3.	The Board of Review therefore holds the record legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 1 but legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of both accused of Specification 2 and the Charge, and legally sufficient to support the sentences.
(175)
4-. I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings of guilty as the same pertains to Specification 1 be vacated.
5.	Inclosed herewith is a form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendations hereinabove mentioned should it meet with your approval.
Judge Advocate General European Theater of Operations.
3 Incls:
Incl. 1 - Record of Trial
Incl. 2 - Opinion of Board of Review
Incl. 3 - Form of Action

(177)
In the Office of The Judge for the European Theater of APO 871.
Board of Review. ETO 134.
UNITED STATES
Advocate General Operations
2 7 JAN 1943
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES ' IN ICELAND.
Trial by G.C.M,, convened at Camp Haggi, Iceland, 29 August 1942. Charges against Howard W, Morton withdrawn before trial; Nolle Prosequi entered, when case rested in favor of Saylor W. Geissler, Clarence E. Martin and Frederick S. Tice^; Acquitted-John L. Yuhas, John W. Combs (should be Charles 7f. Combs), Lowndes M. Taylor, William A,
Hall, Joe D, Hambrick, James A. Hinson and Joseph R. Whaley; Sentence Disapproved as to Patrick F. Swingle; Sentences: Paul B. Stump, Joseph E. Hayes, Walter Szweda, Novie ’Walker, William E. Delaney, Fred L.
Gibson and Enoch C. Gaskill, dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for three years, the dishonorable discharge to be suspended until release of each from confinement; Willis E. -Mayberry, J.D. Ham^y, Landon C. Johnson, Charles F, Millhorn,
John T. Gullett, James H. Gibson, Holcombe P. Campbell, Jr., Edward Puskoskie, dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and six months confinement at hard labor, the dishonorable discharge to be suspended until release of each from confinement.
- 1 -
134
V	5
Corp.	PAUL B. STUMP	(13035599)'
Pvt.	JOSEPH E. HAYES	(33090588)!
Pvt.	FRED. L. GIBSON	(13016025)!
Pvt.	WALTER SZWEDA	(36219826)'
Pfc.	WALLACE C. HOWE	(14060601)!
Pfc.	LANDON C. JOHNSON	(13000977)
Pvt.	JOHN P. KILPATRICK	(3-4161765)'
Pvt.	CLARENCE E. MARTIN	(13010526)'
Pvt.	CHARLES F. MILLHORN	(33090769)
Pvt.	CHESTER C. MITCHELL	(14052863)
Pvt. HOWARD W. MORTON	(R-2468828)'
Pvt.	THOMAS R. ROBINSON	(13007633)'
Pfc.	BELVIE D. SNOW	(13023873)
Pfc.	PATRICK F. SWINGLE	(13004959)!
Pfc.	LOWNDES M. TAYLOR	(13017100)!
Pfc.	FREDERICK S. TICE	(20328811)
Pfc.	NOVIS WALKER	(33111566)
Pvt.	ERNEST W. WOODRUFF	( 7020364),
Pfc.	WILLIS E.' MAYBERRY	(330902/+2)!
Pfc.	CHARLEY W. COMBS	(33090768)!
Pvt.	DONALD P. FOLK	(13026747)!
Pfc.	ENOCH C. GASKILL	(13017744)!
Pvt.	SAYLOR W. GEI3SLER	(13004505)!
Tech.5th Gde. VENCIL HAMILTON (13015933)! All of Co."A11. 241st Quartermaster Bn. Pfc. HOLCOMBE P. CAMPBELL,JR.(13018899)! Co."A11. 241st Quartermaster Bn. (Serv.) , Pfc.	ANDREW L. CHANDLER	( 6948422)!
Co^A". 241st Quartermaster	Bn. on	!
detached service with 11th Infantry.
Pvt.	GLENN E. RICE	(15059669)!
Battery ri 3" . 46th Field Artillery Bn.	!
Pvt.	EDWARD PUSKOSKIE	( 6881086)]
824th Engineer (Avn).	!
Pvt. Joseph t. McCullough	(350264465))
Hq. & Hq. Co.. 50th Signal Bn.	)
Pfc. CLARENCE W. PETERS	(17003909 ))
Conrpanv nBH. 50th Signal Bn.	)
Pvt. JOHN L. YUHAS	( 13007699))
812th Military Police Company.	)
Pvt. BERRY J. WOLF	( 37055810))
Company TIAn. 50th Signal Bn.	)
Pvt. SHIRLEY R. TUDOR	( 15046292)),
Co."A”. 5th Quartermaster Bn.	)
Pvt. JAMES E. HARPER	(	6669822))
Co.11 A11. 5th Quartermaster Bn.	)
Pvt. JOHN T. GULLETT	(	14000856))
Co.ltB11 392nd Quartermaster Bn.	)
Pvt. JOHN P. CARBONE	(	12007894))
Pvt. ALVIN C. CHAVIS	(	14007505))
Pvt. WILLIAM E. DELANEY	(	15042874))
Sgt. JAMES H. GIBSON	(	6137669))
Tech.4th Gde. WILLIAM A.HALL ( 11011850)) Cpl. JOED. HAKBRICK	(	7006755))
Tech.5th Gde. D. HAMBY ( 14003456)) Pvt. JAMES A. HINSON	( 14030464))
Tech.5th Gde. DAN MOORE	( 13014037))
Pvt. ALFREDO VITALI	(	11007307))
Pvt. JOSEPH R. WHALEY	(	14000047))
All of Co.nB11. 392nd Quartermaster	)
Bn. (Port).	)
Confinement: Disciplinary Barracks, but to be held at Prison Stockade until further orders. Glenn E. Rice,' Joseph T. McCullough, Clarence W. Peters, Shirley R. Tudor, Andrew L. Chandler, Donald P. Folk, Vencil Hamilton, James E. Harper, Wallace C. Howe,
John P. Kilpatrick, Chester C. Mitchell, Thomas R. Robinson, Belvie D. Snow, Ernest W. Woodruff, Berry J. Wolf, John P. Carbone, Alvin C. Chavis,
Dan Moore and Alfredo Vital!, six months confinement at hard labor and forfeiture of two thirds pay per month for six months; the confinement at hard labor to be suspended during good behavior. Suspension revoked as to Dan Moore,
19 December 1942 by order of the approving authority.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined in the office of the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentences. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review, which submits this, its opinion, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations.
2,	The accused were tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	94th	Article	of	War.
- 2 -
134
(179)
Specification: In that Corporal Paul B. Stump, Company A, 241st Quartermaster Battalion, Privates Joseph E. Hayes, Company A, 24-lst Quartermaster Battalion, John T. Gullett, Company B, 392nd Quartermaster Battalion, Fred L, Gibson, Company A, 241st Quartermaster Battalion, Walter Szweda, Company A, 241st Quartermaster Battalion, Glenn E. Rice, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, Edward Puskoskie, Co.B, 824th Engrs. (Avn), Joseph T. McCullough, Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 50th Signal Battalion, Private First Class Clarence V7. Peters, Company B, 50th Signal Battalion and Private Shirley R. Tudor, Company A, 5th Quartermaster Battalion, Private John L. Yuhas, 812th Military Police Company, and
Campbell, Holcomb P., Private First Class* Chandler, Andrew L., Private First Class. Combs, Charles W., Private.
Folk, Donald P., Private.
Gaskill, Enoch C., Private.
Geissler, Saylor W., Private.
Hamilton, Vencil, Private First Class. Harper, James E., Private (this man a member of Co. A, 5th Q.K).
Howe, ’Wallace C., Private.
Johnson, Lendon C., Private,
Kilpatrick, John P., Private.
Martin, Clarence E., Private.
Millhorn, Charles F., Private.
Mitchell, Chester C., Private.
Morton, Howard W., Private*
Carbone, John B., Private Chavis, Alvin C., Private Delaney, William E.,Private Gibson, James H., Sergeant Hall, William A., Pvt.lcl Hambrick, Joe D., Corporal Hamby, J.D., Private. Hinson, James A., Private Moore, Dan, Private.
Vitali, Alfredo, Private. Yihaley, Joseph R., Private.
All of the above, members of Co. B, 392nd Quartermaster Bn.
Robinson, Thomas R., Private.
Snow, Belvie D., Private.,
Swingle, Patrick A., Private First Class. Taylor, Lowndes M., Private.
Tice, Fredrick S., Private.
Walker, Novie, Private First Class.
Woodruff, Ernest W., Private.
Mayberry, Willis E., Private.
Wolf, Berry J., Private (This man a member of the 50th Signal Battalion)
All of the above, members of Company A,
241st Quartermaster Battalion,
acting jointly and in conjunction with each other and in pursuance of a common cause and intent, did, at Reykjavik, Iceland, on or about April 27, 1942, while acting as agent and custodian for the Government of the United States, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to their ov/n use and benefit and to the use and -benefit of each of
(ISO)
them, 52 watches value $11.50 each, 2 watches value $20,00 each,
2	watches value $14.95 each and 1 compass value $23.65, total value $691.35, the property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof, intrusted to them and each of them by Colonel Matthew H. Jones, Base Quartermaster,
U.S. Arny.
The trial judge advocate announced that, by direction of Major General Bonesteel the appointing authority, the prosecution withdrew the charges and specification against Private Howard W. Morton and would not pursue the same further at the present trial (R5). Each of the other accused pleaded "Not guilty" to said charge and specification and, with the exception of those acquitted and against whom the charges were withdrawn, or in whose favor a nolle prosequi was entered (RI89), were found guilty and sentenced, each, to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due, or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for five years (R.207). The reviewing authority modified the sentences of the various accused as shown in the heading of this review, approved same as modified, but suspended the execution of the dishonorable discharge until the soldiers' release from confinement, and designated the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, as the place of confinement, but directed confinement in the U.S. Army Forces Prison Stockade until further orders.
The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court Martial Order No. 80, Headquarters U.S. Army Forces (in Iceland), dated 3 October 1942.
3.	The record fails to show that any real investigation of the acts charged was at any time made. No statements of any persons purporting to have any knowledge of the facts alleged in the charge, or any part thereof, are found vdtb the record of trial. The only documents attached showing the proceedings prior to trial are: (l) the charge sheet, (2) 1st. indorsement referring the charges to Major Joseph McNamee as investigating officer, dated 15 July 1942, (3) 2nd indorsement dated 20th August 1942 of the investigating officer, stating he had investigated the charges and (4) summary of evidence and action of Staff Judge Advocate, dated 21 August 1942.
It appears from the record that a wooden case containing, among other things, a compass and a quantity of -watches, was shipped from the Frankford Arsenal (R.9); that (inferentially shown) this shipment was the property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof; that some of this merchandise was stolen or was found missing during the unloading of a ship in the harbor of Reykjavik, Iceland, or shortly thereafter; that some of accused may have been members of details assisting in the unloading of ships, and that some of the articles were found in the possession of some of the accused. The record consists very largely of the testimony of First Lieutenant Benjamin F. Allen, 812 Military Police Company,
- 4 -
. ;0I
134
(181)
Assistant Provost Marshal, Camp Kaggi, Iceland, who read from a folder entitled "Investigation of Thefts at the Docks" (R.42), but which was purportedly used for the purpose of refreshing the memory of witness. Many of these statements were read directly into the record by the trial judge advocate. According to this testimony, so read into the record, this folder was made up, at least in part, of unsworn statements of both accused and others taken at indefinite times by undisclosed persons under, possibly, improper circumstances (R.162). The court over-ruled the objection of the defense counsel "that -the exhibits are answers to questions that were placed before the men to bring about confessions, that they do not show the full conditions under which these questions were asked, that it shows nothing about the restraint the accused may have been under previous to this questioning, that those exhibits are statements by men who are available for questioning, that there are questions that place the witness in a dilemma of answering 'Yes' or 'No1, which would be admissions" (R.37, 38), first allowed them to be marked for identification only (R.25) and then admitted them as Prosecution Exhibits 17 to 50 respectively (R.40). It was not shown that these statements were taken by a stenographer (R.38) and these pages are not attached to the record as exhibits. Lieutenant Allen was not the investigating officer appointed herein in compliance with AW 70. Major KcNamee, the regularly appointed investigating officer, was not a witness.
Article of War 70, among other things, requires that "no charge will be referred to a General Court-Martial until after a thorough and impartial investigation thereof shall have been made."
"A record of trial showed affirmatively that no investigation of the charges had been made prior to^trial. HELD: The provisions of AW 70 with reference to investigating charges are mandatory and there must be a substantial compliance therewith before charges can legally be referred for trial. A court-martial is without jurisdiction to try an accused upon charges referred to it for trial without having been first investigated in substantial compliance with the provisions of AW 70 and, in such a case, the court-martial proceedings are void ab initio." (CM 161728 (1924). Dig.
Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec,428(1), pg.292).
"While the investigation of charges required by AW 70 should be impartial,**** the matter is procedural in its nature and failure to comply literally with all the provisions of paragraphs 30-35, inclusive, U.C.M., 1928, will not defeat the jurisdiction of the court". (CM 206697 (1937), Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.428(2), pg.29^^
- 5 -
In several cases in which was involved the question of whether an investigation was a thorough and impartial one within the meaning of the 70th AW,, it was held that the determination of whether or not there has been a thorough and impartial investigation is a question of fact primarily for the decision of the appointing authority and that in the absence of an abuse of discretion his determination is conclusive. (CM]22225, Keller: CM 183183, Cloybaugh; CM 183364, Jurkowski: CM 20^275, (4-3-35).
Accused is entitled however, to be confronted by all available witnesses who testify. Evidence taken before an inspector, prior to preference of charges, may be read to accused at the investigation, and if he does not desire to cross-examine the witness who testified before the inspector they need not be called by the investigating officer. This form of investigation is consistent with AW 70 and paragraph 35a, M.C.M., 1928j (CM 185756 (1929), Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.428(3), pg.293).
The papers attached to and accompanying the record of trial of this case show the proper reference of the charge for investigation to Major Joseph McNamee, Ordnance Department on 15 July 1942, together with his report thereon of 20 August 1942, apparently copied from a form for such reports stating he had complied with the various requirements but following with a paragraph reading "There was no testimony given by any witness except Privates Shirley R. Tudor, Company A, 5th Quartermaster Battalion, Berry J. Wolf, Company A, 50th Signal Battalion and Edward Puskoskie, 812th Military Police Company, who, having been warned of their rights and privileges, confessed to their activities in the conspiracy.
No witnesses were required by the accused." Except for the three men named above, the accused stated they did not desire to make any statement.
No statements are attached hereto, no conspiracy is charged and the above statements amount to no more than an unsupported and unverified conclusion of the investigating officer,
A further paragraph also is inserted, viz:
"The following documents were read and explained to the accused and are attached hereto:	,	x
Shipping ticket #22150; Serial numbers of/watches:
0C-43382, OC-39393, 0C-10688, OC-48278, OC-38639,
0C-38482, 0C-35960, OC-38190, OC-38751; Serial number of stop watch: 2234? Serial number of compass: M2 No.1516-1942."
There is little in the foregoing paragraph standing alone, as it does, that can be considered pertinent to the requirements of AW 70.
I
— 6 -
134
(183)
The only' other attached paper is the "Summary of evidence and action of Staff Judge Advocate pursuant to ATT 70 and par. 35c, Manual for Courts-Martial, dated 21 August 1942, listing the names of accused "charged jointly with embezzlement of 52 watches and 1 compass under the 94th AW", and followed by a paragraph reading:
"The indicated evidence shows that five of the accused broke open a box containing 52 watches and 1 compass and that each of the accused removed therefrom, or were found to be in possession of, one or more of the watchesj that each of accused converted one or more of the watches to his own use and benefit; that each of the accused were acting as agents and custodians for the watches for the purpose of removal of said watches, a part of the cargo of a ship, from one point to another in the course of their duty and employment."
The foregoing is followed by a paragraph to the effect that "the charge is correct and the specification is appropriate thereto. The indicated evidence is sufficient to support a finding of guilty of each of the accused of the offense charged" and recommending that the charges be referred to a general court-martial for trial.
Neither the report of the investigating officer nor the attached papers show anything whatever in support of the charges herein or the connection of any of accused with the offense charged. The report of the investigating officer negatives the express statements therein and prevents any presumption of compliance with AW 70 and it further fails to provide the appointing authority with any information upon which to exercise his discretion. There was therefore no substantial compliance with the requirements of AW 70, and the Court acquired no jurisdiction to try the accused, (CM: ET0.121, Francis L. Shoupe et al).
4,	The evidence, as to each of the accused found guilty, was developed during the trial in substantially the same maimer as is the following testimony in reference to Corporal Paul Stump (an accused) and Private John B, Ellis (a witness).
Captain Lewis Mark of 812th Military Police Company, a witness for the prosecution, testified over the objection of defense counsel, that one of the M.P’s came in to the orderly room and delivered a compass to him and reported that he took it
- 7 -
/'''1':
134
(184)
from Corporal Stump (R.53). Immediately following the testimony of Captain Mark the following appears in the record of trial (R.55):
"Prosecution; The prosecution now desires to read from Prosecution Exhibit No,43. This is the testimony of Corporal Paul Stump, 241st Quartermaster Battalion, as taken by Lieutenant Colonel John Picarelli, at Camp Lambton Park,
May 16, 1942.
".Defense; I object to the reading of this statement inasmuch as that piece of paper is an exhibit which has not as yet been entered in the court record as evidence but merely admitted as an* exhibit.
"President; The court will be ciared and closed.
The court was closed, and, upon being opened, the law
member made the following statement;
"Law Member; The objection is over-ruled. The
statement may be introduced as evidence against the particular individual. Any other evidence referring to other accused will be disregarded by the court and will be stricken from the record."
The trial judge advocate read "from pages 138, 139 and 140 of this investigation, which is Prosecution Exhibit No. 43, with reference to Corporal Paul Stump." These questions and answers were given by Corporal Stump to. Lieutenant Colonel John Picarelli at Camp Lambton Park, on May 16, 1942 (R.60).
"Q. You never had them? Did you ever have a watch?
A. I had one watch.
Q. Where did you get it?
A. I got it down there where the rest of the boys was getting them.
Q. Where?
A. At the end of the pipes.
Q. Which pipes?
A. Pipes laid on the docks.
Q. That was—on the lumber pile?
A. No, sir.
Q. Did you ever see anybody getting a box of watches?
A. No, sir.
Q. Anybody ever tall you they hid some watches at the dock?
A. No, sir.
— 8
134
(185)
MQ. You will admit you had one of those watches?
A, Yes, sir.
Q. You got it at the same place the other boys got watchesj hidden in the pipes?
A. Yes, sir.”
Ellis, in a statement read from this "Report” was quoted as saying "something about they got Stump with something. Then when he come back Stump said that Szweda gave him a compass or something like that, but other than that nothing more was said" (R.61).
The trial judge advocate read into the record also from the same source, a statement -of Howe that Stump gave him a watch (R.62) and Lieutenant Allen from the same source read a statement of Hayes that he gave a watch to Stump, after having gotten a watch from Stump (R.64-). Lieutenant Allen also testifies he questioned Stumps
"Q. Did you have occasion to interrogate Corporal Paul B. Stump? I refer you to page 136.
A. I did.
Q. Did you warn Corporal Stump of his rights under the 24-th Article of 7/ar?
A. I did.
Q. Did you explain the meaning of perjury to Corporal Stump?
A, Yes,
Q, After having been warned of his rights what statements did Corporal Stump make to you concerning watches?
A. He stated:
'I didn’t get any watches with Hayes. The watch he gave me is the ones that he himself got. I was standing by a crane on the docks when he gave them to me. I gave him the two watches that he gave me back to him, but I still had the one that I got.1
Q. Who do you refer to as ’He’ in this question and answer?
A. Private Hayes. Corporal Stump further states:
’I didn’t have but one watch. I gave this watch to Wallace Howe—*
Q. Did Corporal Stump in his statements to you give any indication of where he got these watches, or what he got the watches from?
A. He indicated that he got the watch from a box which was on the docks.
Q. Did he state what the approximate size of this box was?
A. About the size of a five-gallon gasoline can’’(R.68).
- 9
-Nii
134
(186)
i *j L > i ■.
The trial judge advocate later read from this "Record" that Howe said he got a watch from Stump (R.95). The trial judge advocate, still reading from this "Report", has Szweda say "one corporal took it" (a compass) (R.99-100), and that Corporal Stump was the man (R.101).
Lieutenant Fitzhugh, a prosecution witness, of same organization as that to which Stump belongs, testified that its records showed no watch or compass was issued to Stump (R.106).
A prosecution witness, Corporal Maurice P. King, testified that Stump gave him a compass while a search for it was being made, Stump saying that he got it from a soldier at the docks (R.157).
Beginning on page 60 of the record of trial is the
following:
*	"The prosecution now desires to read from
Prosecution Exhibit No, 23, the testimony of Private John B, Ellis, taken by Lieutenant Colonel John Picarelli, at Camp Curtis on May 23, 1942. Page 29, at Question No, 4-6.
Q, This fellow Szweda, have you ever observed him with any government property?
A, No sir. Szweda was a quiet fellow as far as in the hut—nothing irregular,
Q, Ever see him with any government watches?
A, No, sir.
Q, Ever hear him talk about it?
A, No,sir, can’t say that I have. The other day when they had the shakedown, I heard him say something about somebody but didn't pay any attention,
Q, Didn't hear what he said?
A, No, sir, something about they got Stump with something. Then when he came back Stump said that Szweda gave him a compass or something like that, but other than that nothing more was said. Then later, the M.P's came and got it,"
"Defense:	If	the	court	please,	I	object	to	most
of the material being read. ‘The Manual for Courts-Martiaj. said that the actions and statements of a conspirator done or made after the common design Is accomplished or abandoned, are not admissible against the others, except acts and statements in furtherance of an escape, in effect in Par,114-c. In other words, we are using here a statement made in regard to other people, and except where these statements directly concern the man himself, as what he may or may not have done, I object to this testimony being admitted."
-10- (;
134
(187)
"Prosecution:	If it please the court I request that
the members of the court take cognizance only of those portions that pertain to the individuals concerned and individuals with whom they were directly concerned."
"Defense:	The	defense requests that only those
portions that directly refer to the man himself and not to other people and other things that may be said or done by other men be read."
"Prosecution:	If it please the court, it is impossible
to do that and mate sense of the questions and answers."
"Law Member:	At this particular time, the objection
of the defense is overruled. John B. Ellis as mentioned, i3 not one of the accused and the court will disregard any reference except testimony relating to the one accused that makes a statement."
"Defense:	Nhat	I would like to ask at this time is
if in the future these other men who are accused— whether their entire statement is to be read into the record?"
"Law Member:	I	don't know whether they are or not.
The matter hasn't come up."
"President:	Is	Private Ellis available as a witness?"
"Prosecution:	I do not know."
"President:	If	he is he should be brought here
rather than bring some testimony from a sheet."
"Law Member:	All items which refer directly to the
individual accused will be stricken from the record and completely disregarded by the court."
"Defense:	Private	Ellis	is	available as a witness."
"Law Member:	The whole of the testimony by Private
Ellis will be stricken from the record."
Lieutenant Colonel Jesse E. Green, Infantry, Provost Marshal, a prosecution witness, testified as follows:
"Q. Colonel Green, I show you Prosecution Exhibit No.7. Do you identify it?
A. Yes, I identify this watch by the band and by the number—I would have to go to my record for that.
Q. Could you tell the court, sir, who that watch was taken from?
A. It was taken from Private McCullough of the 50th Signal Battalion.
Q. And when was this watch taken from him, sir?■
A. Approximately, around the second week in May— as I recall.
- 11
gomhofntia
134
(188)
"Defense:	What is the number of that watch?
Prosecution:	The	number	is	Exhibit No. 7, the
serial number is OC 38190.
Q, Colonel, did you get that watch from Private McCullough?
A. I do not know whether I got it from him personally or whether I got it from the Lieutenant in the 50th Signal Battalion.
He admitted to me having the watch."
CROSS EXAMINATION.
"Questions by defense:
Q. Are you sure you didn't get it from a man named Lafferty?
A. I believe I did get it from Lafferty.
Q. You did not then get it from Private McCullough?
A. It came from Private Lafferty, L-A-F-F-E-R-T-Y.
Q. Sir, did you ask any questions of Private McCullough?
A. Yes, I did.
Q. Can you state what those questions were?
A. Not without going to my records, other than a general statement, that, as I recall, of his admitting disposing of the watch to Private Lafferty. I would have tc go to my records otherwise.
Q. Do you knovr the name of this man standing by me? (Indicating one of the accused).
A. I wouldn't be sure but I believe that's McCullough. I am not sure.
Q. That is correct, it is Private McCullough.
Will you refer to your notes. Colonel?
A. (The witness withdraws his notes)."
Defense:	With	permission	of the court I would like
to examine the notes of Colonel Green.
Prosecution:	I	object	to	the defense examining the
witness's notes.
Law Member:	The	witness	may be permitted to use his
notes to refresh his memory. It is not necessary for the defense to read his notes also.
Witness:	I	might	state	that there was inmimerable
interviews with these witnesses and I personally interviewed Private McCullough. Whether these are the exact notes I took from him I don't know.
President:	What	was	the	question?
Defense:	I	would	like	to	ascertain	at	this	time,	has
this already been introduced into evidence? (To witness):	Is	that	a	statement	made	to	you	or	to
Colonel Picarelli?
134
- 12 -
(189)
"Prosecution:	Again I object to the defense
counsel looking at the witness' notes*
Questions by defense:
Q, I doubt if the witness knows whether such notes have been introduced in evidence and I would like to ask him again the conditions under which the statements were made?
A. Any statements that were made to Colonel Picarelli were made in my presence.
Q, Where was this at—Lambton Park?
A. Not to Colonel Picarelli.
Q, Colonel,- did you ask any questions of Privet McCullough at Military Police Headquarters?
A. Of that, I couldn't be sure, but it is my belief that I did. He was down there, I believe, before we got the watch from him and gave us certain information. It is my belief that he was interviewed at M.P. Headquarters, at Lambton Park, and at the Officers' Club of the 812th Military Police Company.
Q. You made the statement that Private McCullough said that he knew it was a government watch— at the same time you qualified I remember?
A, I don't believe I made that statement. I may have made the statement relative to a government watch, that he admitted having the watch.
Q. The only statement that Private McCullough ever made is that he admitted that he had a certain watch. Is that correct?
A. He admitted having had this watch.
Q. Did he say that he knew it was a government watch?
A. I don't recall that without going through these notes.
Defense:	If	it please the court, I'd like to know
at this time if these are the Colonel's own notes he is referring to?
Law Member:	Any notes taken at the meeting at which
he was present, he may refer to, whether he actually took the notes down or not; but if he was not present at the time then he cannot refer to them. (To witness):	If	you were
present at that meeting you may use the notes of the meeting to refresh your memory.
Defense:	No	further questions." (R. 56,57,58).
5.	A complete list of the witnesses for the prosecution together with the substance of their testimony is as follows:
Staff Sergeant Homer W. Wood, Section Storehouse Platoon, 72nd Ordnance Company, testified that small arms, weapons, etc., go through his depot which is the only Ordnance issue depot in Iceland, He identified a packing list sent from the Frankford arsenal which without further explanation was admitted in evidence as Exhibit 1,
- 13

(190)
and a shipping ticket as Exhibit 2, and that the items were unloaded by "A” Company of the Quartermaster Battalion. He identified a shipping box (Exhibit 3) from Frankford Arsenal. He also identified ten wrist watches, a stop watch and a compass by numbers (Exhibits 4 to 14 inclusive); one of which watches is not shown and as to another watch, the number is different, than is shown on list attached to the report of investigating officer.
He further declared that none of these watches had been received at the ordnance depot and that all were government property. He also stated the value of the property. (R,145-147).
Lieutenant Colonel John-Ficarelli, Inspector General's Department, Headquarters, I.B.C., identified a folder entitled "Investigation of Thefts at Docks" as testimony taken after each witness was "sworn" and had identified himself. He identified sheets purporting to show testimony or statements of 25 of the accused and of nine third-parties; each separately numbered from 17 to 50, inclusive, and later admitted as exhibits of the same numbers. (R.23-41).
Lieutenant B. F. Allen, 812th Military Police Company,
Camp Haggi, "identified" exhibits 4 to 14 and read, over defense counsel's repeated objections, various statements from "Investigation of Thefts at Docks" of both accused and of third-parties. (R.42-52).
Captain Lewis Mark, 812th Military Police Company, testified to recovering a watch and compass (R.115-116).
Lieutenant Colonel Jesse E. Green, Provost Marshal, Camp Curtis, identified a watch, Exhibit 7, recovered from a third-party.(R.56).
The trial judge advocate then read to‘the court numerous excerpts from Prosecution Exhibits 17 to 50, purporting to be statements not only of some of accused but also of third-parties,
(R.60-63; 98-103; 125-130; 131).
Lieutenant Francis T. Zober, 392nd Quartermaster Battalion, identified some of accused and stated that to his knowledge, no government wrist watch had been issued to them (R.92-96).
First Sergeant Leslie H. Hagen, 392nd Quartermaster Battalion, identified one accused (R.97).
Lieutenant Henry M. Fitzhugh, Company A, 241st Quartermaster Battalion, Quartermaster Corps, identified some of accused and testified he thought if watches had been issued to accused the company supply records would so indicate.and that none were shown issued (R.104-108).
/ •
- 14 -
134
(191)
Lieutenant Thomas H. Turnbull, Company A, 241st Quartermaster Battalion, Bradford Camp, identified two of accused and stated that to his knowledge no watches or compasses were issued to them (R.109).
Captain Thomas B. Dart, 50th Signal Battalion, Camp Gibraltar, identified one of accused and denied issuing him a watch (R.110).
Captain Gene M. Rauvier, 50th Signal Battalion, identified one of accused and denied issuing a government watch or compass to him (R.lll).
Captain Daniel Iff. Hutgeons, 50th Signal Battalion, identified one of accused and denied issuing to him a government watch or compass (R.112).
Captain Raymond J. Wilson, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, Camp King, identified one of accused and told of taking a watch, Exhibit 5, from him and his story of borrowing it from another accused (R.113-144).
Private Vernon Billett, Company "B", 392nd Quartermaster Battalion, whose statement tinder the name of Vernon Bullock is admitted as Exhibit 18 of the items from "Investigation of Thefts at Docks" (R.26) identified one of accused and told of witnessing the sale of a watch by such accused to another accused (R.117).
Lieutenant Lynn C. Lee, Engineers, Camp Tripoli, identified one of accused and stated that to his knowledge no watch or compass had been issued to him (R.119).
Lieutenant Wm. H. Glanz, Company B, 392nd Quartermaster Battalion (Port), testified that he was executive officer in the Water Transport Office and explained the procedure of unloading shipments; that the men working on these unloading details are agents, of the government while so working, all done under the supervision of an officer (R.120-124)•
Captdin Edward R. Vader, Company "A", 5th Quartermaster Battalion, Camp Lambton Park, identified one of accused and stated that to his knowledge no watch or compass had been issued him (R.130).
6.	(a). The Board of Review is of the opinion that the
reading of these purported statements of accused (which statements included mention of other accused than the one making the statements) was highly prejudicial to the substantial rights of the accused and
- 15
131
CONFIDENTIAL
(192)
that no ruling by the Law Member limiting the use of such statements could erase from the minds of the court, the effects of the continued repetition of such readings. While these statements were admitted in evidence, under a ruling that they should be considered only as against the accused making same, such formalism could not avoid the practical result of the statements upon the minds of the Court,
Each statement was interlocked with references to other of the accused, and in the end they composed a matrix of hear-say evidence which must in some degree have influenced the court to the injury of accused.
(b). Equally objectionable was the ruling of the Law Member permitting witnesses to "refresh their memories" from these statements contained in the portfolio labelled "Investigation of Thefts at Docks." The reporter or stenographer who took the statements down in short-hand and who transcribed the same did not appear as a witness as to their authenticity. The record is entirely silent as to whether the statements were true and correct and whether they had been produced with accuracy and fidelity. The failure to authenticate such statements rendered their use "to refresh the memory" of witnesses prejudicial error. It is obvious that the witnesses had neither memory nor knowledge of the contents of the statements and their use to "refresh the memories" was a mere pretext, which was finally frankly abandoned when the Trial Judge Advocate simply read some of the statements into the record,
"A stenographer who took notes of the former testimony of a witness or the voluntary statements of accused, may testify by reading from his notes, or a transcript thereof, where he has no recollection of the testimony or statements apart from the notes or transcript, and a proper foundation is laid, establishing the accuracy of the notes, or of the notes and transcript, accordingly as the stenographer testifies from the notes or transcript. Also another person will not be permitted to read or testify from a transcript of a reporter's notes taken at a former trial, where the transcript is not vouched for by the reporter.”(70 Corpus Juris,
' sec,768, pg.597). (Underscoring supplied).
"*** There would be error where, under the
pretext of refreshing a witness’s recollection, the prior testimony was introduced as evidence." (Rosenthal v. IT.S. (C.C.A.8th).24-8 Fed. 684,
686j U.S. vs. Socony-Vacuura Oil Co, 310 U.S,
150,234; 84 Law Ed. 1129, 1174).
134
- 16 -
(193)
(c). The refusal of the Law Member to allow Defense Counsel to inspect the so-called "Report", which was used to "refresh the memory" of witnesses was clearly erroneous.
"Material used to refresh the recollection of a witness must be shown to opposing counsel upon demand, if the material is handed to the witness." (United States vs. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U.S., 150, 232;
84 L. Ed. 1129, 1173).
While of itself, and taken alone, this error perhaps is not of sufficient gravity to require the setting aside of the .findings, yet when it is cumulated with the other noted irregularities it becomes highly prejudicial to accused,
7.	The serious question in this case is whether that offense of which the accused have been charged and convicted, was embezzlement or larceny.
The following passages from the Manual for Courts-Martial, defining and explaining larceny and embezzlement are pertinent:
• a. Paragraph 149 g. 1928 K.C.M. on larceny:
"Larceny is the taking and carrying away, by trespass, of personal property which the trespasser knows to belong either generally or specially to another, with intent to deprive such owner permanently of his property therein (Clark)." n **-*-* the taking must be from the actual or constructive possession of the owner,****", tt**** where a servant receives goods or property from his master to use, care for, or employ for a specific purpose in his service, the master retains possession and the servant has the custody only and may commit larceny of them. A person then, has the 'custody1 of property, as distinguished from the 'possession', where, as in the case of a servant's custody of his employer's property, he merely has the care and charge of it for one who still retains the right to control it, and who, therefore, is in possession ( i.e. constructive possession as distinguished from actual possession) of the property *»**".
17 -
134
(194)
b.	Paragraph 149b, 1928 M.C.M. on embezzlement:
"Embezzlement is the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom it has been intrusted or into whose hands it has lawfully come." (Moore v. U.S., 160 U.S. 268).
"The gist of the offense is a breach of trust. The trust is one arising from some fiduciary relationship existing between the owner and the person converting the property, and springing from an agreement, expressed or implied, or arising by operation of law,
. The offense exists only where the property has been taken or received by virtue of such relationship."
Eminent legal writers all concur in the view above
expressed as to conversion by an agent, employee, workman or servant of his master’s property:
a. Corpus Juris:
"Servant of Owner - (l) Chattels to which
rm
keeper or clerk in a bank, workman in a factory, brakeman on a railroad train, foreman of a railroad warehouse or/clerk therein, hostler, drayman, stevedore, weigher or person employed in any other capacity as the servant of another, who feloniously takes and carries away the money or goods of his master, to which by reason of his employment he has access, is guilty of larceny and not of embezzlement; and the fact that the taker was the regular custodian, or was temporarily in charge of the building, or was the master's agent in charge of the office from which the thing stolen was 'taken, does not affect his guilt, for in none of these cases did he have any possessory rights in the things committed to his care."
(36 Corpus Juris, sec.164, pg.784).
"(2). Chattels delivered to servant by master, (a). In general. From the legal conception of a servant as one who performs labor under the immediate direction and control of a master, the principle proceeds that the possession of the chattels, with or concerning which the labor is performed, remains in the
134
CONFIDENTIAL
(195)
"master, and the servant, being the mere custodian of such of them as come within his control, is guilty of larceny.if he feloniously misappropriates them to his own use." (36 Corpus Juris, sec.165, pg.784).
"(bb). Chattels to be used. A servant to whom a master delivers materials to be incorporated in a structure in building which the servant is employed, or blue prints showing the work to be done, or coal for use in firing a boiler of which the servant has charge, or an animal to be used in ploughing the master's land, or a horse and wagon to be used in hauling aoods, or hay and grain for use in feedingTanimals, acquires no possessory right in the chattels delivered to him, and is guilty of larceny if he feloniously converts them to his own use." 36 Corpus Juris 784.-786. (Every clause in the above quotation is supported by cases cited in the foot notes.) (36 Corpus Juris, sec.167, pg*785).
b.	Bishop's New Criminal Law, section 824*
"1. Possession and Custody - are in this branch of the law widely distinguishable. There can be no trespass against custody; it is always against the possession, and it can be committed as well by the custodian as by any other person. For' example - ******
"2. Servant - When a master's goods in possession come within the handling of the servant, the latter has in law no more than a custody of them, the possession remaining in the former. Therefore the servant may commit larceny of them; as, if a clerk in a store feloniously removes goods from it, this is larceny,****".
c.	McClain on Criminal Law, section 556s
"Larceny by servant or mere custodian. -There is a well-recognized distinction between possession such as that of a bailee and mere custody as that of a servant, and the doctrine by which a bailee is held not guilty of larceny in misappropriating goods in his possession does not apply to the act of a servant in
±34
CONFIDENTIAL
(196)
"wrongfully converting or disposing of his master’s property of which he has the mere custody. In such case there is a trespass, for the possession is in the master and not in the servant, and the servant may be guilty of larceny in the wrongful disposal of his master’s property even though he has at the time under his entire control ****. A person who is engaged about the business of his employer, such as a clerk or salesman, is a servant within the doctrine of this section, and does not have possession of his master's property, but only the custody of it, and therefore is guilty of larceny in fraudulently misappropriating it. So one who is employed in general labor, having control of his employer's property for that purpose, is guilty of larceny in wrongfully taking such property *-*****",
»
d.	Wharton on Criminal Law, section 1195s
"Larceny by servant having bare charge to convert to his own use. If a servant or other agent who has merely the care and oversight of the goods of his master - as the butler of plate, a messenger or runner of money or goods, a hostler of horses, the shepherd of sheep, and the like - convert such goods to his own use, without his master's consent, this is a larceny at common law; because the goods, at the time they are taken, are deemed in law to be in the possession of the master - the possession of the servant in such case being the possession of the master ***."
e,	The following cases from the Federal courts are illustrative of the principle stated in the prceding quotation:
(l)	United States v. Strong, (2 Branch C.C,251, Fed,case 16,All, Circuit Court of the District of Columbia,1821), Larceny of copper bolts, property of the United States, Defendant was a workman at the Washington Navy Yard, whose duty it was to drive copper bolts into the hull of a ship under construction.
He carried to his home some of the bolts delivered to him for that purpose and offered to sell them. It was contended for the defense
134
-20-
r,rii;r
(197)
JON
'■Y<
■ a
that there was no trespass, but the Court told the jury that if it was satisfied by the evidence of accused's guilt, his offense was larceny,
(2)	United States v. Clew. (4- Yfesh.C.C.700,Fed.Case 14.,819, Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,1827).
Larceny and embezzlement of two notes, property of the Bank of the United States. Defendant was captain of the watch and porter at the bank, and one of his duties was to carry notes from the safe to the note teller. He took two of the notes and passed them.
HELD, a conviction of larceny is proper if the jury believes the evidence. As to the indictment for embezzlement, there is no evidence on which the defendant can be convicted. The notes were not intrusted to the defendant to keep, but merely to carry from one part of the bank to another.
(3)	United States v. Holland. (Fed. Case 15,372, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York, 1843).
Larceny on the high seas of foodstuffs, property of the owners of a certain merchant vessel on which defendant was steward and cook of the crew's mess. In thatcapacity, certain foodstuffs were delivered to him, some of which he sold to immigrant passengers to his ovm profit.
HELD, the owner is deemed to retain possession of the foodstuffs, and there may have been a constructive taking from him. The question for the jury is whether that taking was felonious. Verdict, guilty.
(4)	(l).	United States v. Hutchinson (7 Pa.Law J.365,
Fed. Case 15,432, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, I848), Embezzlement. Defendant was clerk to the Treasury of the United States Mint at Philadelphia. He kept in the name of the Treasurer .the books
of the contingent fund of the mint, and kept the money of that fund in a closet within a larger safe. Defendant had the key to the outer door of the safe. He made way with some of the money of the fund.
- 21 -
CO!!?
T • \ »
134
CONFIDENTIAL
(198)
HELD. The defendant’s offense was larceny and not embezzlement. A servant has mere charge, not possession, as a butler of his master’s plate, a shepherd of his sheep, or a shopboy of goods in a shop.
Though no report of a second trial is available to this Board, it is stated in note 1 to section 1199, “Wharton's Criminal Law, that Hutchinson was subsequently tried for larceny and convicted.
(5)	Talbert v. United States. (42 App.D.C.l., Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, 1914). Larceny of rings, property of Charles Schwartz, Schwartz, proprietor of a jewelery store, delivered certain rings to defendant, who did not return them. Defendant was told to take the rings out of the store to show to prospective customers. The trial court instructed the jury that, if defendant had possession as a salesman with authority to pass title, his offense was embezzlement; but, if he was a mere servant to exhibit the rings and then bring them back with the name of the customer for approval of the sale, his offense was larceny.
The Court of Appeals held the above instruction proper. If an article is delivered to a servant or agent with limited authority for a special purpose, and he appropriates it, his offense is larceny.
(6)	Tredwell v U.S.(C.C.A.Va.l920) 266 Fed. 350, certiorari denied (1920) 4-0 Sup.Ct.587 , 253 U.S. 496, 64 L.Ed.1031)•
****** So where the defendant, employed as a stevedore to unload nitrate owned by the government, from vessels and load it into cars for further shipment, after it was so loaded caused certain of the cars to be billed to private consumers, to whom he sold the contents, his offense was larceny, and not embezzlement*
f.	Following are certain cases arising in the State Courts.
(l)	People v. Brenneaner (101 Misc.156.l66 N.Y., Special Term 1917).
Grand larceny of blue prints. Defendant was salesmanager of the Gurney Ball-Bearing Company of Jamestown, New York. Blue prints of its
134
CONFIDENTIAL
(199)
bearings contained information of great value to it ox to a competitor. Defendant, secretly intending to leave the company’s service and to seek employment with a competitor, asked and obtained of Barringer (one of its engineers) a set of blue prints and carried them to New York. The court said (pg.806):
"In the case at bar the possession of the property taken was in the company. Barringer, a mere employee, to wit, the company's service engineer, had the care and custody of these prints. His possession was clearly the possession of his master, the company.”
"The grand jury were well warranted in finding that when the defendant received these prints from Barringer he intended to appropriate them to his own use. They were delivered to him by another servant. His possession, acquired under such circumstances, was the possession of his master, the corapary, and when he took the property under such circumstances anirao furandi, and thereafter appropriated them to his own use, he committed the crime of larceny as it existed at common law, and before the adoption of the Penal code.”
"The learned counsel for the defendant urges that the defendant had access to these prints at all times, and that he was lawfully in possession thereof. 'Access' to the property certainly does not necessarily carry with it possession. The clerk in a store has access to the clothing on the shelves, and to the cash register, and to the property which it is his duty to sell, but if he appropriates it with felonious intent, it has never been doubted that he commits the crime of larceny at common law. So in the case at bar the defendant's access to these prints does not help him. These prints were in the possession of his master. Such possession as he got for the purpose of stealing them was his master's possession, and when he thereafter in fact carried out his original intent by taking them away and converting them to his own use, he committed the crime of larceny at common law."
prut c! Lui\ i I
rui
134
CONFIDE:'! iYi..
(200)
(2)	Turner v. State. (124 Ala.59, 27Sdith.272).
Larceny of money of James Bolling. Defendant was clerk in Bolling's store and slept in a room over it. The safe was opened at night and the money taken from it. Defendant had access to the safe at times. The court said
(p.275):
" It did not appear that the money came into the possession of defendant as the agent of Bolling. The mere fact that he was employed by Bolling in the store, and had access at times to the safe where Bolling had deposited the money, did not divest Bolling of its possession, and consequently would not change the offense, if one was committed, to embezzlement. Holbrook v. State, 107 Ala.
154,18 Sou.176j Washington v. State, 106 Ala.
58, 17 Sou.546."
(3)	State v. Jarvis. (63 N.0.556,(1869).
Larceny of bacon. Defendant was servant to the owner of the bacon, and was left in charge of the owner's premises when the owner went away for a few days. During that time defendant took the bacon. The Court said (p.557):
"The goods alleged in the indictment to have been stolen by the defendant belonged to the prosecutor, and had been in his actual possession. He intrusted them for a few days to the custody and care of the defendant, his servant. In contemplation of law, the goods were in the possession of the owner, and the taking of them by the defendant with the fraudulent purpose of converting them to his own use, was larceny, and the defendant was properly convicted. 2 East. P.C., 564, sec.14".
8.	In the present case, the accused were not, it is true, domestic servants, but if they were soldiers detailed to the duty of unloading from ships government merchandise intended for use in the military service thereof, they were, nevertheless, servants as that term is 'used in legal parlance - one employed by the master in the master's business, whom the master may direct in the details of his work. Accused, if so detailed, were not in charge of unloading the ships or any part thereof, but were only* subordinates employed on the temporary work of removing such merchandise from the ship, and/or unloading such merchandise from the ship on trucks, and since their control of the property was subject to the control of their
134
fl'OMf
! AI
CONFIDENTIAL
(201)
superior officer, they had custody only of the property as distinguished from possession. Possession in this case lay in the government (the master), and the servant's conversion of the articles constituted a trespass and their offense was larceny and not embezzlement. (CM 220398 (1942), Bui. JAG., Jan-June 1942, sec.4-52(10), pg.22), K30oooaooQoaootKKKKK3C3ooac The wrongful taking by a soldier of Government property to which he has access, is larceny and not embezzlement. (CM 211810, Houston (1939).
The Board quotes and makes the basis of its decision the passage from the Manual for Courts-Martial, paragraph 149g, page 172 as follows:
»»****• Where a servant receives goods or property from his master to use, care for, or employ for a specific purpose in his -service, the master retains possession and the servant has the custody only and may commit larceny of them. A person, then, has the 'custody' of property, as distinguished from the_'possession', where, as in the case of a servant's custody of his employer's property, he merely has the care and charge of it for one who still retains the right to control it, and who, therefore, is in the possession (i.e. constructive possession of the property.
Assuming that all of prosecution's purported evidence is admissible and that it is not subject to the objections hereinbefore set-forth (Par. 6(a), (b), (c), supra), the case against accused Stump, Hayes, Szweda, Walker, Delaney, Fred Gibson and Gaskill, falls within the definition of "custody" as distinguished from "possession". The Board of Reviewis therefore of the opinion that as to the above named seven accused there exists a fatal variance between the allegation of embezzlement and the proof of larceny, and that for this reason the record is legally insufficient to support the finding of guilty of said seven accused.
9.	The Staff Judge Advocate in his review of the record of trial finds "the evidence sufficient to support the finding of guilty of each element of the charge" of the above named seven accused, but as to the remaining 27 accused he states, as his opinion, "the evidence is legally sufficient to support findings of guilty of. the included offense of misappropriation of government property of the value of each article possessed by the respective accused." A careful and painstaking examination and analysis of the evidence in the record of trial fails to reveal any direct proof or proof of any facts upon which an inference may be based that any
- 25
Pf1*! £! n r ■. -i- ■.,
134
CONFIDENTIAL
(202)
one of these 27 accused held "possession" of any property within the definition of the crime of embezzlement. As a consequence the prosecution failed to prove one of the vital elements of the offense alleged in the Specification, viz: "embezzlement."
The proof failing to establish the commission of the crime of embezzlement by these 27 accused there remains for consideration the suggestion of the Staff Judge Advocate that the evidence will sustain a finding of guilty of a lesser included offense of ^misappropriation of government property ." It is presumed that he has reference to the crime denounced by AW 94 as follows:
"Who steals, embezzles, knowingly and wilfully misappropriates *** any ordnance, arms, equipments, ammunition, clothing, subsistence stores, money or other property of the United States furnished or intended for the military service thereof ****" (Underscoring supplied).
The Board of Review does not deem it necessary to consider the -• question as to whether the offense described in the foregoing Article of War - "misappropriation of Government property" - is a lesser included offense of the crime of embezzlement, although it is strongly implied by CM 199841* Dig. Ops, JAG., 1912-1940, sec,452(18), pg.339, that it is not. When the prejudicial and erroneously admitted evidence (Par.6(a), (b), (c), supra) is excluded, as it should have been, there is no proof in the record that these accused committed any crime. The prosecution utterly failed to over- ... come the presumption of innocence with which each of the accused were clothed. (M.C.M. par.78, pg.62j Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents (Reprint, 1920) sec.479, pg.317).
10.	For the reasons that there was no substantial compliance with the requirement of AW 70 with respect to investigation of the charges; that there was prejudicial and illegal evidence admitted at the trial; that there was a fatal variance between the allegations of the specification and such proof as was offered as to seven accused above named, and that as to the remaining 27 accused there was a total failure of proof of commission of any offense by them, the Board of Review is of the opinion thatthe record is legally. insufficient to support the findings and the sentence.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
134
1st Ind
Z 8 JAN 1943
(203)
WAR DEPARTMENT, Office of Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, U.3. Army.
TO: Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, TJ.S. Army,
APO 887.
1.	Kerevdth transmitted for your action under Article of War 50-£, as amended by the act of August 20, 1937 (Pub. No,325> 75th Cong.), and the act of August 1, 1942 (Pub. No.693> 77th Cong.), is the record of trial in the’ case of:
Stump, Paul B.,
Hayes, Joseph E.,
Gullett, John T.,
Gibson, Fred L.,
Szweda, Walter.,
Rice, C-lenn E.,
Puskoskie, (none) Edward, McCullough, Joseph T., Peters, Clarence W., Tudor, Shirley R., Campbell, Holcombe P, Jr. Chandler, Andrew L.,
Folk, Donald P.,
Gaskill, Enoch C., Hamilton, Vencil.,
Harper, Janes E.,
Howe, Wallace, C., Johnson, Landon C., Kilpatrick, John P., Millhorn, Charles F., Mitchell, Chester C., Robinson, Thomas R.,
Snow, Belvie D.,
Walker, Novde.,
Woodruff, Ernest W., Mayberry, Willis E.,
Wolf, Berry J.,
Carbone, John P..,
Chavis, Alvin C.,
Delaney, William E., Gibson, James H.,
Hamby, J. D., '
Moore, Dan (none)., Vitali, Alfredo (none).,
(13035599), (33090588), (14000856), (13016025), (36219826), (15059669), ( 6881086), (350264465), (17003909), (15046292), ,(13018899), ( 6948422), (13026747), (13017744), (13015983), ( 6669822), (14060601), (13000977), (34161765), (33090769), (14052863), (13007633), (13023873), (33111566), ( 7020364), (33090242), (37055810), (12007894), (14007505), (15042874), ( 6137669), (14003456), (13014037), (11007307),
Corporal, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn,
Private, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.B, 392nd Q.M. Bn.
Private, C6.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Bty.C, 46th F.A. Bn.
Private, 824th Eng. (Avn). ,
Private, Hq.& Hq.Co, 50th Sig. Bn. Pvt.lcl., Co.B, 50th Sig. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 5th Q.M. Bn.
Pvt.lcl,, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.(Serv). Pvt.lcl., Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Pvt.lcl., Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn,
Tech.5th Gde., Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn. Private, Co.A, 5th Q.M. Bn.
Pvt.lcl., Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Pvt.lcl., Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Pvt.lcl., Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Pvt.lcl., Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Pvt.lcl., Co.A, 241st Q.M. Bn.
Private, Co.A, 50th Sig. Bn.
Private, Co.B, 392nd Q.M, Bn.(Port). Private, Co.B, 392nd Q.M. Bn.(Port). Private, Co.B, 392nd Q.M. Bn.(Port). Sergeant, Co.B, 392nd Q.M. Bn.(Port), Tech.5th Gde.,Co.B, 392nd Q.M. Bin (Port). Tech.5th Gde.,Co.B, 392nd Q.M. Bn.(Port). Private, Co.B, 392nd Q.M, Bn. (Port).
together with'the foregoing opinion of the Board of Review,
CONFIDENTIAL
134
co^nowmi
(204)
2.	I concur^ in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings and sentences be vacated, and that all the rights, privileges and property o£ Yfhich each of the accused has been deprived by virtue of said sentences be restored,
3.	Inclosed herewith is a form of action designed to carry into effect the above recommendation should it meet with your approval,
(ETO 134).
3	Incls:
Incl. 1 - Record of Trial.
Incl. 2 - Opinion of Board of Review. Incl. 3 - Form of Action,
(Findings and sentence vacated by order of the Theater Commander -see letter Hq. ETO, 10 Feb 1943 (ref. AG 250.4 EJA))
Judge Advocate General European Theater of Operations.
134
#(205)
