#(149)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General ■with the European Theater of Operations - - - APO 871	*
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 913
UNITED STATES )’
-	)
)
)
Private EDWARD PIERNO	)
(32338171), Headquarters	)
Company, 2nd Battalion, 175th	)
Infantry,	)
' )
‘ I
10 NOV 1943
CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLI, EUROPEAN THEATER. CJF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.H,, convened at London, England, 7 October 194-3• Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, total forfeiture^ and confinement at hard labor for 30 years. United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania,
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1,	The record of trial in the’case of the soldier named above has been examined by the “Board of Review,
2,	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications*
CHARGE I* Violation of the 58th Article of War,
Specification* . In that Private Edward Pierno, Headquarters-Company, 2nd Battalion, 175th Infantry, ETOUSA, did, at Tidworth, England^ on or about 10 May, 1943, desert the service of the United States and did.remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Brocken-hurst, England on or about 15 July,“1943*
CHARGE II* Violation of the 93rd Article of War,
Specification 1* <hhhhhhh*> did, at London, England, on or“about 23 May) 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away L69-30-0 in English money, (about $284.00), one diamond ring, two gold wedding rings, value about 15-C-Q, (about $20,00), the property of Sophie Cooke.
- 1 «•
GOrirlDENTlAL
CONFIDENTIAL
Specification 2s »»»»»»»», did, at Poole, Dorsetshire, England, on or about 9 June, 19A3, feloniously take, steal.j and carry away 118-10-0 in English money, (about $82*00), one pair of black and gold Japanese ear-rings, value about 10-30-0, (about $6.00), one pair of pearl drops set in gold,:value about 10-10-0, (aboui $2*00), one pair of ear-rings, "blue stones set in silver, value about 10-6-0, (about $1,20), one old thin gold wedding ring, value about 12-0-0 (about ?3.00), one engagement ring, value about 12-0-0, (about $8*00), one gentlemen's old gold ring, value about 12-0-0 j, (about $8.00), one leather notecase with a pair of nail scissors in it^ value about 10-10-0,'(about $2.00), one magnifying glass,:value about 10-5-6, (about $1.12), one leather purse with compartment which opens out like a wallet to contain notes, value about 10-15-0, (about $3.00), one leather purse with two compartments for money and s tamps, value about 10-5-0, (about $1.00), the property of Violet Elizabeth Diffey.
Specification 3: ********, did, at London, England, on or about 15 June, 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one suit, one leather wallet, one clothes brush, value about 15-0-0,'(about $20.00), the property of William Simpson Ferguson,
Specification A* ********, did, at London, England, on or about 15 June, 19A3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one mackintosh coat*, value about 14-0—0, (about $16.00), the property of Patrick Christopher Kelly.
‘Specification 5*	did, at London, England,
on or about 15 June, 19A3, feloniously take, steal, 1 and carry away two suits of clothing, one gentlemen's silver watch, one gentlemen's three'stone diamond ring, one pair of ear-rings, one cap, one shirt, one Home Safe, one green fountain pen, value about 1100-0-0, (about $400.00), the property of Arthur William Kelly.
Specification 6* ********, did, at London, England, on or about 27 June, 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one summar coat, one pair of gloves, one gold ring, three razors, ten shirts, one fountain pen, one alarm clock, one powder compact, value about 135-0-0, (about $140.00), the property of Andrei Lisin.
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(151)
Specification 7*	««**»»»*, did, at Rlngwood, England,
on or about 3 July, 1943, feloniously take, steal, and early away one brown leather suitcase with initials,"S.B.S" in black on the outside, one gentlemen's brown lounge suit, one shirt, one stiff white collar, one pair of gold, cuff links, one pair black shoes, one cricket shirt, two pair of socks, three handkerchiefs, one sponge bag containing razor and shaving kit, flannel and tooth brush, one brown fibre suitcase, one pair of lady's fawn colored sandals, one pair of gentlemen's pajamas, one pair of lady's pajamas, one pair of boy's pajamas, one girl’s sleeping suit, one pair of Military hair brushes in. leather case, one lady's ebony hair brush, two stamp albums both containing stamps, two reading books, one leather zip fastener pencil case, one box of pencils, one pair of boy’s knickers, one pair of boy's green socks, three boy's blouses, three girl's frocks, three pairs-of girl's knickers, six pieces of hair gibbon, two lady's frocks, one gentlemen's bathing suit, two children's bathing suits, two towels, two leatherette cases each containing knife, fork and spoon, two pairs of lady's stockings, two pairs of ankle socks, two old pairs of children's paddling shoes, one lady's full length mustard colored coat, valued about 3.50-0-0, (about $200.00), the property-of Stanley Barrett Sales.
Specification 8i ********# did, at London, England, on or about. 13 July, 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one brown striped shirt with two collars to match, one blue shirt with two collars to match, two pairs of socks, two neckties, one pair newly repaired brown shoes, two wrist watches, one pearl handled penknife, one pair gabardine flannel trousers, one.ronson lighter, one pair of pants, one vest, one wallet,.H2r0-0 in.English money, (about $43.00), two driving licenses, one motor car insurance certificate, one identity card, five books clothing coupons, one railway ticket, ▼alued'about 134-13-5, (about $133.70), the . property of Herbert Charles , Jeffery.
Specification~9»> **»»«»«»,.did, at Brockenhurst, Hampshire, England, on.or about 15 July 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away two albums, value about 10-5-0, (about $1.00), fourbexes of handkerchiefs, value about 10-15-0, (about $3.00). three handbags, value about 13-0^0, (about $12,00). one writing case, value about il^0-0, (about $4.00),
- 3 “
CONFIDENTIAL
(152)
CONFIDENTIAL
four hair nets, value about i0-2-0^ (about $.40), . nine scarves,.value about Ll-Q-Ot (about $4*00), seven pairs of gloves, value about M-0-0, (about $4»00), tweatyfpyi* handkerchiefs, value about LO-15-0, (about $3*00), tiro nightdress cases, value about, LO-5-0, (about $4,00), two pin boxes, value about LO-5-0, (about $1.00), two sprays, value about L 0-4-0, (about $.80), one pair tweezers, value about LO-O-6,"(about $.12),.two coat hangers, value about L0-2-O, (about $.40), one methylated lamp, value about 10-2-$, (about $.52), one clothes brush, value about L0-3-0, (about $.60)t the property of Frances Mildred Covap.
CHARGE III*' Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification* ********, did, at London, England, on or about 9 July, .1943, with intent to defraud, wrongfully and uni awfully make and utter to Henri and Company, London, England, through Eugene Jelinek, manager of the said Henri and Company, a certain, cheoJf in words and figures as follows, to wit* .
I a
no h go
I
1 11
FRONT
No D 36858 To
London July 9.	1943
Pay
THE CANADIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
2 LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3
1
H^nrl & Co.
or Order
Eight Poinds and none
1 8t-t-
Edward Pierno - 32338171 A.P.O. 633 - U S Army
and‘by means thereof, did fraudulently obtain from the said Eugene Jelinek, the manger of Henri and Company, one Beethoven battery wireless set, of the value of about L8-0-0, English money, (about $32.00), he, the said Private Edward Pierno, then well knowing that he did not have and not intending that he should have any account with The Canadian Bank of Commerce, London, England, for the payment of said check.
He pleaded not guilty to the Specification of Charge I but guilty of absence without leave, not guilty to Charge I but guilty of a violation of Article of War 61, guilty to Charges II, III and to the specifications under each, and was found guilty of all charges and specifications.
- 4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(153)
Evidence of one previous conviction by special court-martial for failing to report to barracks in violation of Article of War 61, and for bringing discredit upon the military service by claiming assault and robbery in violation of Article of War 96 was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 30 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, d esignated the United States Penitentiary, Lewis-burg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War
3* The evidence for the prosecution was substantially as followsi
The defense stating that it had no objection thereto, an extract copy of the morning report of accused's organization was admitted in * evidence, wherein it was recited that he went absent without leave on 10 May 1943 (R7-3; Pros.Ex.l) (Charge I-and Specification).
About 12 May 1943 at 4 Eversholt Street, Euston, London, accused engaged a room from Mrs. Sophia M. Cook who owned a shop and an apartment house at that address. He told Mrs. Cook that he was in the "Intelligence Office, or something" and that he was looking for a friend who had committed sabotage in Scotland. He wore an American uniform, signed the register as Peter Lorlente and remained "from Monday until the Sunday" .
On 23. May. 1943 (Sunday) Mrs. Cook missed her attache oase which contained 69 pounds in notes, 30 shillings in silver, two wedding rings, a sapphire and diamond ring and a	gold	watch	which	she	had	purchased	from
accused in a five-shilling copper bag. She did not Bee1 accused after missing the case, and did not give him permission to take her property (R8-9) (Specification 1, Charge II),
On 23 June 1943, Mis3 Mazy I. Gait, a nurse residing at 23 Edge Hill Court, Wimbledon saw accused at the Wimbledon Town Hall. He was dressed in the uniform of an American Staff Sergeant and he had Eagle Squadron wings' «nd five medal ribbons. On his blouse were "R.A.F" wings. He told Miss Gait that his name was Edward Pierno and that "he had just come back from Turkey, or North Africa, that day". She saw him on four or five occasions and he led her to believe that he was connected with the Air Corps (R10-U).
About 27 June 1943 Mr. Andrei Lisin, a Russian journalist, was living at the Pembridge Court Hotel, London. Upon returning to the hotel at about 5*00 p.m. on that day he discovered that some of his property was missing. The missing articles were a summer top coat, seven or eight shirts, a gold ring with a large stone, one Rolls razor, two Swedish razors, an alarm clock, & powder case and "small belongings like link studs". Asked if he recognized accused Mr. Lisin testified "I did not -know him before. I might recognize him because he came to me before, asking me for a key". He twice identified the guard as accused (R9-10) (Specification 6, Charge II).
- 5 - ■
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
On 15 ‘July 1943, as the result of a telephone call Constable Willirim C« Cherrett, Hampshire Joint Police Force, stationed at Brocken-hurst went to the Womens’ Volunteer Services Canteen, Brockenhurst, where he found accused asleep in a chair "dressed as a Flight Sergeant in the American Army". He wore five "medal ribbons" and the wings of both the United States Army and Royal Air Forces, Accused told Constable Cherrett that he had arrived on the London train that morning, that he was going to Isleworth Aerodrome to collect a plane and that he had to be at his station at Birmingham that day prior to 5»30 p.a* Upon request he produced identification papers which disclosed that he was Edward Pierno, a private in the United States Army, He told Cherrett that his ribbons were those of the European Theater of Operations; North African Theater of Operations, Purple Heart wounded in action, Distinguished Flying Cross and Good Conduct for three years regular service* ' After further questien-ing accused was taken to the lymington police station and detained* After he had been "cautioned" he stated that he had taken a suit-case found in his possession from the railroad station at Brockenhurst as he left the London train (Specification 9, Charge II), At the trial Cherrett identified certain ribbons as "similar" to those displayed ty accused.
The ribbons were admitted in evidence and later withdrawn, the defense stating that there was no objection (Rll-12} Pros*Ez*2)*
On 15 July 1943 accused was taken from the Lymington police station to the military police headquarters at Bournemouth (H13)* After being warned of his rights pursuant to Article of War 24 he made a statement to Technical Sergeant Charles J. Miller, Investigations'Division, Southern Base Section, which statement was reduced to writing and signed by accused* The defense stating that it had no objection, the document was inti Juced in.evidence (R13-14; Proa.Ex.3)«	In substance accused
atuVji that he was absent without leave on 10 May 1943, and went by train to London. On the train he took a suitcase which was in the aisle and .feiuoved a Sinall watch and‘diamond ring. While in London‘he lived mostly c.t Cook’s boarding house. He sold the watch to Mrs. Cook for three pc wia, ter shillings, and the diamond ring to a male employee of Mrs.
Cook for nine pounds 10 shillings. He left Mrs. Cook’B on 23 May 1943, taking a bag which was in her shop. In the bag he found 73 pounds in money‘and some papers including insurance papers and a bankbook (Specification 1, Charge II).
After visiting several towns accused arrived at Cardiff where he asked some sailors how he could get to Southern Ireland where he hoped to be interned as he did not intend to return‘to the army. He then went to Poole where he bought some staff-sergeant stripes which he began to wear* He also purchased a civilian suit and from then on wore both military and civilian clothing. While at Foole he stayed part of the time at the house of a Mrs. Diffey. When leaving on 9 June he took her suitcase which contained 16 pounds, 4 savings books, 2 bank books and some jewelry including rings and ear-rings (Specification 2, Charge II)*
- 6 —
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(155)
He went to London, stayed at the Pembridge Court Hotel and then at the Hyde Park Hotel where he found and took a man’s suit which was hanging in the closet of his room. He entered the adjoining room and took a diamond ring, a Longine pocket watch, a suit of clothes and a check book (Specification 5» Charge II). He pawned the ring and soldthe watch, both suits and two of Mrs. Diffey’s gold wedding rings, receiving sub- ~ > stantial sums therefor. Accused returned to the Pembridge Court Hotel for two days and when leaving gave the manager a check for three^ pounds.
He went to Wimbledon where he told people that he was in the Eagle Squadron, md then to Gloucester where he visited military police headquarters and "gave them a cock and bull story about flying home". He destroyed letters which several men there gave him to man in the United States.
After visiting several other towns accused arrived at Ringwood where he took two suitcases which he saw at the station. He subsequently sold > both suitcases and a Rolls razor -and shoes contained therein (Specification 7, Charge II). He finally returned to London where he went to a radio store operating under the name of Henri & Co., and bought a portable radio with a "burn” check for eight pounds (Charge III and Specification).
He pawned the radio for 6 pounds 10 shillings. After remaining for a few days in Horbiton he departed, after haying cashed;a third check for four pounds. He then lived at 8 Norfolk Square, London, where he "went through" a room, took an electric razor and sold it. He then went to Brockenhurst, took a suitcase which was in the station (Specification 9* Charge II), and went to the canteen where he was apprehended by the, police. When drawing th8 three checks he used the check book taken from the room in the Hyde Park Hotel and signed his own name (Pros.Ex.3).
»
A* For the defense accused testified in substance that he was legally separated from his wife and had been unsuccessfully endeavoring to stop ah allotment from his pay which she had obtained. He received a special court-martial sentence whereby he_"was fined $14A and. given two months company confinement". He became discouraged because of the allotment difficulty and the situation in general, lost his head and "just took off". He wanted to return to the army, did not know how to go about j.t, and "just stayed out longer and longer". He was returning to his organization when finally apprehended. At that time he was in uniform, wore the stripes of a staff-sergeant, Air Corps insignia and five medal ribbons (R15-17). Admitted in evidence with consent of the prosecution was a letter of commendation addressed to accused from Major General L. T, Gerow, Commanding General, 29ih Infantry Division, United States Army for services in the'operation of a Red Cross Service Club (R14-15J Def.Ex.l).	>
On cross-examination accused admitted writing two letters addressed respectively to,Mis3 Gait and to his company commander, Captain. Jamas Hays and also his "last will and testament" addressed "To whom it may concern". Accused in substanee described himself therein as a deserter, admitted committing larceny and posing as a member of the air corps during his absence^ and’wrote that he was "taking the easy way out". The documents were admitted in evidence with the consent of the defense (R17-18}
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
Pros.Exs. 4^5,6). Accused further testified that the letters were written when in a moment of stress, that he had in fact twice attempted to Mil > himself,'and that if successful he would have been classed as a deserter. Instead, as be was returning to his organization (when apprehended), he believed that he waB guilty of absence without leave only (R18).
5.	The review of the assistant^fudge advocate, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA contains comments on certain irregularities contained in the record of trial. Further comment thereon is unnecessary,	.
6.	In view of accused's plea of guilty of absence without leave to the offense of desertion alleged in Charge I and Specification thereunder, the only question presented for consideration is whether the evidence was legally sufficient to establish ^e requisite intent to desert. Accused's prolonged absence of over nine weeks was terminated by apprehension. Although frequently in the vicinity of military installations he did not surrender to military authorities. He represented to Mrs. Cook that he was from the "Intelligence Office" and registered under an assumed name.
He subsequently purchased and wore civilian clothing, posed as a noncommissioned officer of the Eagle Squadron, and e xisted upon the substantial proceeds of a series of thefts which he committed. He inquired as to the possibilities of going to Southern Ireland where he hoped to be interned as he did not intend to return to the army. Intent to desert was clearly established by the evidence (CM ETO 656, Tavlor: CM ETO 7AO, lane: CM ETO 800, Urarard: CM ETO 823. Poteet: CM ETO 875, Fazio). ,
, * ' * * * - } The prosecution introduced evidence of the corpus delicti pertaining only to the Specifications 1 and 6, Charge H, The confession of accused relates specifically to certain specifications of Charge II and to the Specification of Charge III, but in other respects is so general in.', character that an exact reference therefrom to the remaining specifications of Charge II is impossible. Despite this fact the pleas of guilty to Charges II, III and to the specifications under each fully warranted the court in finding accused guilty of the offenses, alleged therein (CM ETO 839, Kelson). The record plainly shows that the president of the court explained in detail the effect of his pleas of guilty to accused who desired .that the pleas still stand.	.
7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 28 years of age and was inducted 18 May 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months.
8.	The court was ’legally constituted and had Jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting-the substan-j tial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is Regally sufficient
to support the findings of guilty and the sentence*
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(157)
9. Pursuant to paragraph 5$, GO #37, ETOOSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years* By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is -authorized for the offenBe of desertion in time of war (Article of War 42; AE 600-375, 17 May 1943, sec.II, par*52; HGM., 1928,.par.90) and for the offense of larceny of property valued in excess of $50 (18 U.S.C,, sec* 466; 35 Stat. 1144).
Judge Advocate
Judee Advocate
\
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Array.
1.	In the case of Private EDWARD PIERNO (32338171), Headquarters Company, 2nd Battalion, 175th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the reoord of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings find sentence, which holding is hereby approved* Under the provisions of Article of War 5&k you now have authority to order execution of the sentence*
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 913. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 913).
Brigadier General, United States Aroyy Assistant Judge Advocate General.
CONFIDENTIAL
#(159)
