#(189)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the	*
European Theater of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW *  ETO 1289 l ' UNITED STATES	)  )  >*	51 JAN 1944  VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAM) •
v. > <		Trial by G.C.M., convened at War-
I	)	rington, -Lancashire, England,
Sergeant ELLIOTT (Ml)	) -	8 December 1943«' Sentence:
MERRIWEATBER, (I3I3215I),	>	Dishonorable discharge, total
2057th Quartermaster Truck	)	forfeitures and confinement at
Company (Avn), 1511th	) • •	hard labor for three years.
Quartermaster Truck Regiment	)	United States Penitentiary,
(Avn) (SP). > »	)	Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
OPINION by -the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, TAN BEN5CHQTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined- by the Board of Review,
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
k	•	•	*
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 93rd Article of’ War. ,
Specification In that-Sergeant Elliott (MI)
Merriweather, 2057th QM.Trk Co.,Avn-, 1511th QM.Trk .Regt.Avn (SP), AAF-569, APO 635, did, at AAF-569, APO 635, on or about 2 November *	1943* with intent to commit a felony, viz:
Murder| commit an assault upon Private George Lewis, Jr. by wilfully and feloniously shoot->	>	ing	at- the said Private George Lewis with a
U.S.Carbine 30 Ml. ' ■*	-
He pleaded not guilty to and was found* guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions-was introduced. He was sentenced to be reduced to the grade of private, to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit* all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for three years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence , designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 50J»
- 1 -
(190)
3* The evidence for the prosecution shows that.on the evening of 2 November-1943# the accused. Private George (MI) Lewis, Private Houston (LMI) Lloyd and Private First Class Arthur. L, Tripp, all of the 2037th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn), 1311th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn) (SP), were engaged in a game of cards in the common room of a barracks at AAF Station 5£9» During the course of the game a disagreement* arose betireen the accused and Lewis, The accused ‘seized Lewis’ money and hit him on the jaw with his fist (r6»7»13*35)* Lewis engaged him in a struggle and the two men wrestled on the floor until separated by Sergeant Dorsey who ordered them to bed (R8,13,22), 'The accused then left the common room (R7,13,22).
. » * : • -
The common room of. the barracks was also used as sleeping quarters by Lewis, Lloyd and .Private Hosea (Mil) Warren, 2037th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn), The room is. about 18 feet long and about 11 or 12 feet wide. The ingress, door is in the middle of one of the- length wise “walla entering from a hall way. The door swings inwardly to the light.* Lloyd’s bed -a normal size single bed of army issue - was next to the wall containing the door and immediately to-the -left upon entering the doorway, Lewis' bed was opposite that of Lloyd's, against the far wall from the doorway, Warren’s bed was against .the wall, to the right of the doorway upon entering and = sufficiently close to the entrance so that the door swung back against the bed (R7.10.ll,12,14,18,19,37,38).	♦
After accused left the common room, Lewis, Lloyd and Warren went to bed. The lights of the room were extinguished and the door was closed and locked by Lloyd (E7»14)« A few minutes after the three soldiers were in bed, the accused was seen in the hallway of the barracks walking in the direction of the common room (R23,24,27). He was armed with a carbine (R23,27,30),
He knocked on the door and Lewis called "Who's that?". Accused answered "open the doorj I want to talk to you," Lewis replied "I will see you in the morning" (R?,23,27).	*
-	k
Private First Class A, G« Gorman, 2057th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn) who occupied a room opening upon the hallway had gone to bed but had left the door of his room open. He saw accused going down the hallway toward the common room armed with a carbine and also heard his demand that the door be opened and Lewis' reply. Thereupon Gorman called to Lewis and warned him not to open the door (R7.15.23), Accused then kicked: the door open and holding his carbine in his right hand reached with his left hand inside the doorway to the light switch and attempted to turn on the lights. He had projected the carbine into the room and pointed it in the direction of the left wall exclaiming "You can't fight now"(R?,8,ll,15.l8,23*27)« Lewis jumped out of bed, picked up a chair	threw it at the accused. Then he dumped
Lloyd out of his bed end used the bed as a flail, striking at the accused, who stood outside in the hallway pointing his carbine through the doorway in the direction of the left wall of the* room. Lewis, as he swung the bed at accused, stood close to the entrance wall near the door. He knocked the carbine from the hands of accused who picked it up, and then fired two shots, Lewis was then standing close to the wall at the left of the door.
2
(191)
Lloyd and Warren escaped from the common room by a window and Lewis followed (R8,9,10,15,19,21,24,28). As accused walked back down the hall he said "the only reason I don't kill him is that God ia a *—■
002-33).
A subsequent examination of the room disclosed the fact that there were two bullet marks on the floor and one in the end wall of the room to the left of the doorway upon entering. The hole in the wall was probably a ricochet shot* The two holes in the floor were about 6 feet to the left of the doorway upon entering and 32 inches and 38 inches respectively from the wall containing the entrance way(R20,37»39).
I	•	i .	'
4.	The aecuasl elected to remain silent after his rights had been explained to him (R43)» The defense, however, recalled Lewis who had previously appeared as a prosecution witness. He stated that he had thrown the chair at accused because the latter was standing there with a rifle although he did not know, whether the rifle was pointed at him. Accused kicked the door entirely open and it remained open. Lewis testified "If he had ever come in he could have shot me" (R39), but further stated that accused had been drinking and in his opinion he "would not have done it" had he not been drunk (R40). .	•	4
A
Gorman who also had been a witness for the prosecution was recalled by the defense. He testified that he saw accused as, he returned up the hall from the common roam. He was carrying a riflet that he (the witness) heard him say something but could not understand what he said (R41). ,
i
Sgt Vernon H. Vysinger, 2057th CJ£ Trk Co (Ayn), another prosecution witness, was also recalled by the defense. Be testified that there was' nothing that would have prevented accused from aiming the, gun at anyone in the common room and discharging it (R42).
5* The crime of an assault with intent to commit a felony, vizi murder, ia properly laid under the 93rd, Article of War. The elements of the crime are declared by the Manual for Courts Martial (Sec. 149# P» 178) to be as follows t
-	-	4	>
"Assault with intent to murder.— This is an assault .aggravated by the concurrence of a specific intent to murder) in other wards, it ia an attempt to murder. As in other attempts there must be an overt act, beyond mere preparation or throats, or ap attempt to make an attempt. ' To constitute an assault with intent to murder by firearms it is not necessary that the weapon be discharged) and in no caae la the actual infliotion of ipjury necessary. Thus, where a man with latent to murder another deliberately assaults him by shooting at him, the fact that he misses does not alter the character of the offenae. Where the intent to murder exists, the fact that for soma reason unknown the actual consummation of the murder ia impossible by the means employed does not prevent the person using them from
- 3 -
(192)
>
being guilty of an assault with intent to commit murder whejre the means are apparently adapted to the end in view. Thus where a soldier intending to murder another loads his rifle with what he believed to be' a ball cartridge and aims and discharges his rifle at the other, it is no defense that he, by accident, got hold of a blank cartridge.****"
A more specific analysis of the offense is stated thusi
■An intentional attempt by violence with present ability, or in some jurisdictions, apparent ability, and without legal excuse^ or provocation, to do an injury to the person of another, accompanied by facts and , circumstances indicative of an intent to take life, constitutes the offense of assault with intent to murder.****"(30 C.J., sec. 158 Pg» 15).
* • > % ■ »
"In addition to the requisite intent, in order
.to constitute an assault with intent to murder,
there must be an attempt or an .assault to carry
out that intention. In other words, there
mu3t be an overt act in pursuance of the intent
as distinguished from the mere intent itself,
and also from mere threats, or mere preparations
not going far enough to constitute an attempt.
There must be commencement of an act which if
not prevented would produce a battery.****"
(30 C.J., sec,159, pg.l6).
«
■Malice or malice aforethought is an essential ingredient of assault with intent to murder.
As in the case of murder, malice may be either express or implied. While the expression "malice aforethought1 includes the element of premeditation, it is imnaterial for how short a time the malice may have existed.****"
: (30 C.J., sec.163, pg.20).
"***•*. The specific intent to take human life is an essential element of the offense of assault with intent to commit murder, and conversely where an unjustifiable assault is iqade by onp capable of cool reflection and not in the heat of passion, with the
4
(193)
intention of killing, it will constitute an assault with intent to kill where.death does not fesult#
The requisite intent, however, may be inferred from the attendant circumstances and may be formed upon the instant of the assault.‘
***** (30 C.J.,:sec.l64,pg«20).
"TSfhile a specific intent to kill is an essential ingredient of the offense of assault with'intent to commit murder, this requirement does not exact an intent, other than ' an intent which is inferrable from the circumstances. So while the intent cannot be implied as a matter of law, it may be inferred as a fact from the surrounding circumstances^ such as the unlawful use of a deadly weapon< provided it was used in such a manner as to indicate an intention to kill, or from an act of violence from which, in the usual and ofdinary course of things, death or great bodily harm may result. Other circumstances which may be considered as bearing upon the propriety of an inference of intent are»
The.character of the assault, the nature or extent of the wound of injury, the -presence or absence of excusing and palliating facts or circumstances,'and 4 prior threats* The question 6f intent -as dependent upon the physical circumstances and the impression made by-them on the mind of defendant must be deter-- mined by the facts as they were perceived or understood by defendant.*****
(3^ C.T., sec. 165, pg.21).	.	-
The principal question revealed by the record is whether or, not the evidence is sufficient to prove that accused when he discharged the carbine into the common room of the barracks entertained the specific intent to kill Lewis. Eroof of-such specific intent is necessary to sustain the conviction. Lewis and accused had quarreled over a card game and engaged in a mutual combat of short duration. The fight was terminated by the intervention of Dorsey. Accused under orders, left the room and returned in a ^hort time armed with a carbine. Upon being refused
>« %
(194)
admission to Lewis' sleeping quarters, be kicked open the door and projected his carbine into the room* Lewis, upon discovering the accused standing in the open doorway, armed with-a carbine, offered defensive resistancej -first by throwing a chair at him and later by flailing at him with-Lloyd's bed. He succeeded in knocking the carbine from his hold. Accused picked up the,carbine and aimed it through the door at an angle* Lewis was standing at the left of the door against the wall at this crucial moment. Accused then fired twice. An examination of the room-disclosed two bullet holes in the floor about six feet-from the door jamb t© the left of the doorway, and about 32 inches and 38 inches respectively from the wall containing the door* Such physical facts compel but one reasonable conclusion and that is that accused directed his fire at Lewis with the intent of shooting him* An intent to kill Lewis is the only possible explanation of his actions* The fact that its consummation was-impossible because . he failed to deflect the angle of his aim to bring Lewis within the line of fire is wholly immaterial on this issue. (CJ2.228955* Bui. J.A.G.
Jan. 1943. Vol. II, No.1,Sec. 454 (13). P.14).
*
Accused acted deliberately and violently in the commission of the overt act of the assault. He possessed the present ability to take Lewis' life. There is evidence of express malice in addition to the implications of malice, which arose out of his acts. Provocation on the part of Lewis is negatived by the evidence. In the opinion of the Board of Review there is abundant competent evidence of a most substantial character of all of-the elements of the offense and the court could not have done otherwise than find accused guilty of the crime charged (CM ETO 78, Watts; CM ETO 533j Brown).
6.	The court had jurisdiction of the person* and of the offense.
No errors injuriously-affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
« >
7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is of the age of 37 years and six months. He enlisted at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, on 25 October 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months. He had no prior service.
His approved sentence includes confinement at hard labor for three years. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the crime of assault with intent to commit murder (AW 42j See.276* Federal Criminal Code, 18 U S. C.A.Sec.455). By War Department Circular #291, 10 November 1943* Sec.V par*3a,b,c, prisoners under 31 years of age and with sentences under ten years will be Confined in a Federal correctional institution or reformatory; all other prisoners subject to penitentiary Confinement will be confined in United States penitentiaries. Therefore, designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement is authorized.	1
6
(195)
Pursuant to paragraph 8b, Circular 72, ETCOBA, 9 September 1943 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years or where he has .been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Assault with intent to conmit murder is such an offense. The approved sentence is 3 years. Both conditions of the authorization are present. The dishonorable discharge may be executed.
Advocate
i
Advocate ■ Advocate
- 7 -
(196)
1st Ind
ti IAN 1944
STD. Branch Office TJAG-., with ETOUSA, u A	TO:	Commanding
General, VIII Air Force Service Command, APO 633, U, S. Army,
1,	In the case of Sergeant ELLIOTT (EMI) MERRIWEATHER (I3I3215I) 2057th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn), 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn), attention i3 invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of tristl is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence} which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50i you now have authority to order execution of the sentence,
1 *
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1289. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1289).
/y MS. C. McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army,
Assistant Judge Advocate General*
■ 1
#(197)
