#(35)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO
Board of Review.
ETO 503.
UNITED STATES v.
Private First Class JCE T. RICHMOND (34043109), Company «B«, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate).
871.
2 5 Mi 1543
[WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICE*.
OF SUPPU, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS,
Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) Seaforth Barracks, Liverpool, j England, 21-22 April 1943.
) Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, ) total forfeitures and confinement ) at hard labor for 15 years.
) Penitentiary.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN HENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier above named has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	first class Joe
T.	Richmond, Company B, 383rd Engineer’Battalion (Separate), did, at Aintree, Liverpool, Lancashire, England, on or about 1 March 1943, with intent to commit a felony, vizj murder, commit an assault on Sergeant Allen E. Hiller and Private Cornelius F. 0*Donnell, by willfully and feloniously striking the said Sergeant Allen E. Hiller and Private O'Donnell upon the head, shoulders, and body with his fist and knife.
“ 1 «•
239536
i ' K'T; I
5C3
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private first class Joe
T.	Richmond, Company B, 333rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), did, at Aintree, Liverpool, Lancashire, England, on or about 1 March 1943, wrongfully interfere with Sergeant Allen E. Hiller add Private Cornelius F. O'Donnell, Military Policemen, then in the lawful execution of their office.
He pleaded not guilty, and was found guilty of Charge I and of its Specification, except the words "and Private Cornelius F. O’Donnell" where these words appear, and of Charge II and its Specification.
No evidence of previous conviction was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for 15 years.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record Of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 5<>£.
3.	Accused was a member of Company "B" of the 333rd Engineers (R.67,75) stationed on 1 March 194-3 at Maghull Camp near Aintree, England (R.27,57).
Robert Godfrey Savage testified he was on 1 March 1943 the licensee and caretaker of tne Aintree Institute Dance Hall, Longmoore Lane, Aintree, Liverpool. Prosecution’s Exhibit "A" was presented to the witness who described certain of the details shown but did not identify it as a true sketch of the interior of the dance hall. . Without objection the sketch was admitted in evidence and marked "Prosecution Exhibit *A’"(R.9)« He stated that about 10:15 P.M., on 1 March 1943 he saw an American Military Policeman attempt to arrest a colored American soldier in the dance hall (R.10,16). Other colored boys closed in on the police and they were absolutely overpowered. (R. 10) . He did not identify accused as being present (R.10,13). Witness demonstrated on Prosecution’s Exhibit ’A’ where the fight started and the direction in which the participants moved, and he was sure accused whom he had seen before was not the colored soldier with whom the two MP’s were fighting (R.12,16,17).
Margaret Rees testified she saw at the Aintree Institute Dance Hall on the night of 1 March 1943, a tall, colored boy with two white MP’s and they started fighting (R.7-3). Accused’s photograph (on his identification card) was shown witness and she was examined, over objectxou of defense, as to her statement made to others at the Walton Hospital (R.20), She admitted that she was shown accused’s photograph while in the hospital by "an American boy with red hair", and she told him "I just seen this one boy" (R.21). She admitted that she told the investigating officer that "This boy was standing
(37)
. t,L
in the back”, but she did not see a knife in hig hand (R.19) • He was facing another colored boy, and the MP's must have been trying to separate them and then other colored soldiers came up and the fight started (R.24). The next time she looked around there was another boy coming with a gun (R.20), but she did not see accused walking away from the MP's before the fight began (R.21). She knows accused because he had been at the dances and identified him from the picture shown her in the hospital (R.23,24)• One of the MP's had the right side of his face cut (R.25)• Witness .was sure accused was at the dance the night of the fight (R.26)«
Sergeant Allen E. Hiller. 295th Military Police Company, testified that on the night of 1 March 194-3 he was on routine motor patrol duty with Private C. F. 0*Donnell, 234th Military Police Company, in the vicinity of Aintree and Maghull and visited the Aintree Institute (R.27), a dance hall (R.7,9) which was frequented by American colored soldiers and by white girls and might possibly be a trouble spot. They went to the dance hall around 10:00 oTclock, proceeded upstairs and sat down. Two colored soldiers standing near witness started to argue in a loud voice and push and shove each other. When asked to quiet down, an argument started and the soldiers gathered around. One of these soldiers (McLurkin) was wearing a field jacket and witness spoke to him concerning his uniform. The soldier "blew up in my face. He literally screamed this was part of his uniform,
■xx**11. McLurkin*3 First Sergeant, Walter G. Cannon, (R.117), was standing near and witness asked him to take the soldier*s name and to see that a blouse was found for him to wear in public. Sergeant Cannon 3aid he would do so and about then McLurkin, who was under the influence of alcohol, butted into the conversation. "He was literally shouting at me. He had a right to wear a field jacket and to go and leave him alone. ***". To avoid confusion and to quiet him down, witness told him he had better come off the dance floor and come outside the hall (R.28), When the soldier said he wouldn*t go witness grasped him by thqfight arm, O'Donnell took him by the halt arm, and they attempted to lead him off. McLurkin resisted.
Another colored soldier grasped McLurkin * b right shoulder, attempted to wrench him away and demanded: "Where are you taking that boy?" Witness told him they were simply taking McLurkin outside, and to quiet down. This soldier then swung his fist at witness who defended himself and struck back. McLurkin also struck witness with his fist.
"That started things to going. There was several blows back and forth. Several other colored fellows stepped up into range and one of them grasped the flashlight on my belt and picked it off and started slashing at me with it. About this time, I felt I had been cut along the side of the head.
I could feel blood along side my face and I recovered from the blow. I bent my head and I could see blood dripping on the dance floor.
About this time there was just an instant lull in the fighting. I just happened to
-3-	2	3 o 3 6
~5C3
(38)
glance over to my right about three feet and I saw a tall husky built colored fellow whom I can identify standing there. He was kind of half facing me and his hand was just .coming out in front of him nere and he had a knife and he was holding it so I could see part of the handle and I could see the whole of the blade and he was looking at it in this manner (indicating downwards). It appeared to be a marble make of hunting knife. It had a leather thong on the handle. It had a big guard blade.
The blade was six inches long. It was a regular hunting knife". (R.29)
However, witness then found his gun was gone and in defending himself lost sight of the fellow with the knife (R.29). About the same time he felt a sharp pain in his left shoulder, as if he had been stabbed (R.30). There were five soldiers in this group at the time of the stabbing and witness identified accused as the one having the knife (R.29,31), but he did not know who actually stabbed him (R.31-32).
He received three cuts, one at the junction of the shoulder and neck, one in the back of his shoulder blade and one in his side. He saw no other knife during the evening (R.32). Witness and O’Donnell, his partner, were dressed in full Military Police uniform, each had a pistol and O’Donnell also had a club (R.33). O’Donnell disappeared during the fight (R.34.) •
Dr. Norman Otway Knight Gibbons■ Resident Surgical Officer of Walton Hospital, testified that Hiller was admitted to the hospital about 11*20 P.M. He was slightly shocked and had three stab wounds involving the chest, neck and shoulders and he had multiple abrasions. The neck wound was about "two inches across and on expiration it penetrated for a distance of about four inches underneath the skin into the muscles and was fairly clean. It didn’t involve any important structures in the neck. The wound of his shoulder was three inches across and it penetrated down to the bone of the shoulder blade entering the muscles but without damaging any important structures. The third wound was about one inch across and that was in the right lower chest. It went through between the ninth and the tenth ribs and it penetrated into his lungs. In all, the depth of it would be about three and a half inches. That was also a clean wound." (R.37). These wounds could have been made by an ordinary pocket knife with a blade three and a half to four inches long (R.39). Hiller was hospitalized 18 days because of these wounds (R.43)•
Private Cornelius F. O’Donnell. 23Ath Military Police Company, testified that he was with Hiller at the Aintree Institute dance hall on the night of 1 March 1943 when the fight occurred and helped Hiller remove his clothing at the Palace Theater. He identified the blouse, Exhibit ’3’. shirt. Exhibit *C’. tie, Exhibit »D’. pistol belt,
Exhibit ’E ’. as the clothing removed from Hiller, The Exhibits were then, with the consent of the Defense Counsel, received in evidence (R.45,4-6)• Witness turned the clothing over to Captain Heck, his
_ t
(39)
n i,vi.
commanding officer. He told the same story leading tip to the time of the fight as did Hiller. O'Donnell's testimony was substantially the same as that of Hiller.
Captain Herman A. Heck. 234th Military Police Company, testified he was on duty at Seaforth Barracks the night of 1 March 194-3 and was called to a disturbance at Aintree involving two of his men. He identified accused in court. Witness stated he went out to the company at Maghull Camp in an effort to locate some of the men who on that evening had been at the Aintree Institute dance hall, and questioned several of them. He noticed that accused had a cut on his hand and wrist and finger when he came in and after questioning him placed him under arrest. Captain Heck placed Hiller and 0'Donnell on duty at the Aintree and Maghull area the night of 1 and 2 March 1943 (R.57) and he secured the sergeant*s clothes from O'Donnell At the Palace Theater at Aintree, and retained possession of them until he surrendered them to the trial judge advocate a half hour before his testimony was given. Witness questioned accused after warning him of his rights, about 2 o'clock in the morning of 2 March 1943, at which time accused admitted being at the hall at the time the disturbance occurred and that he was trying to get out of the place, but asserted he saw no knife during the encounter and that he got the cut on his wrist while trying to get out (R.5S). Accused had been in bed, but upon orders of Captain Heck, arose and came to the orderly room. He was dressed in fatigue clothes when questioned and searched. When searched an ordinary pocket knife of a "scout type" was found in the pocket of the trousers he was wearing. Accused claimed that the trousers then worn by him were not his (R.61) and denied knowing who owned the knife. The fatigue clothes seem to fit accused. He had previously denied when asked, that he had a knife and did not say the clothes were not his until he was searched and the knife was found (R.63). Captain Heck produced the knife found in the trouser pocket of accused the morning of 2 March 1943 (R.65) and it was received in evidence without objection as Court's Exhibit *A*. When received in court the knife had particles of tobacco and grit adhering to the blade and the interior of the knife was dirty. The largest blade was "close to three inches" in length and a half inch in width (R.66).
Private Jack Gray. Company B. 383rd Engineers, of which organization accused was also a member (R.67), testified in part as follows I
"Q. Directing your attention to the night of March 1st, 1943, can you tell what you were doing on that evening? x-itmnuoot
A. At eight o'clock that evening I went to the Institute dance that was held at Aintree.
About ten o'clock I saw two MP's walk over to McLurkin and ask him something. I don't know what they said to him. They was talking
503
5
£39336
(AO)
to him and I saw him get up and I saw the two MP's catch him on both arms, one on each, and then the crowd came in and started to fight.
Q. Did you recognize, or was the accused among those fighting? Can you testify that the accused was among those fighting?
A. Yes, sir. ■X "X A X-X“X-	■X ¥:
*XXXXX**X X XXX-
Q. Did you see the accused at that time?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. What was he doing?
A. I saw him with the knife in his hands.
Q. You saw him with the knife in his hands?
•	A.	Yes, sir.
Q. What was he doing with the knife in his hands?
A. Yes, sir. He was hitting an MP with it,
Q. Which MP was he hitting?
A. The Sergeant, the tall one.
Q. Could you see where he was hitting the MP with the knife?
A. No, sir. I couldn't say where.
Q. In general, will you describe what you saw?
A. He was standing up and he had a knife in his left hand. I didn’t know where he was hitting him offhand. I was upstairs.
Q. Can you describe the knife? What kind of knife was it?
A. No, sir. I don't know just what kind it was.
Q. Did you see the blade of the knife?
A. I saw the blade, yes,
Q. Can you say how long the blade of the knife was?
A. I couldn't say just how long, it was about that long.
Q. How long did it look to you?
A. Just about that (indicating three inches).
(R. 68-69).
XXXXXXXXXXXXXM
Q. Now, how sure are you that Richmond had a knife? How sure of that are you?
A. Because I saw it.
Q. Because you saw it?
A. I saw it, yes.
Q. What did he do with it?
A, When I saw it he had it in his left hand. He was hitting with it.
*. He was hitting the Sergeant?
A. Yes.
’ Q. But you couldn't see what part?
- 6 -
(41)
A. 1 couldn’t see what part* I could see him come up like that* I couldn’t see how he was hitting him and where he was hitting him. (H*70),
■X<«X»X*»*X«XXXXX
Q* Do you know Private Richmond very well?
A* Yes, sir*
Q* Which hand does he use?
A* I think he is left handed* I am not sure*
Q* You are not sure*
A* No, sir* I am not sure*
Q. Do you know whether he struck the Sergeant or not?
A. Yes, sir*
Q. Where did he strike him?
A* I don’t know where he struck him 1 know he was hitting him. I know that* ***** (R.72),
Witness saw the fight from the balcony and it was light enough for him to see them (R.74)* Upon being recalled the witness, both on direct and cross-examination testified positively that he saw accused and Hiller fighting on the dance floor and also that he saw accused handling a knife with his left hand raised (R.127-131) *
4* The rights of the accused having been fully explained to him, at his own request he was sworn as a witness and testified that he left camp on the night of 1 March 1943 and went to the dance (R*75) where he was supposed to meet a girl. He danced with the girl twice, and sat with her in the balcony. He was dressed in his "Class AM uniform and denied having a drink that evening or having a knife.
While they were on the dance floor the girl stopped and there was a fight going on (R.77,79). Witness saw some MP’s upstairs checking coats but did not see who was fighting because of the crowd (R*79,99)* He "went through the crowd while they was fighting" to go upstairs after his coat and though he did not see anybody with a knife, he was cut on the wrist. In answer to the question, "Who cut you", he said "I don’t know. They were pushing behind me, beside me and I cut myself" (R.80,100).	He did not hear any shot bat got his girl
downstairs "went out the door and went to the train" (R.81), the girl going to the train station with him. He got on the train going to Maghull leaving the girl standing at the station. He had no watch and didn’t know the time (R.84) but he checked his pass at the orderly tent, went to the dispensary to get the cut on his arm fixed and returned to Ms tent (R.85), went to bed and to sleep. The MP’s came to Ms tent later and told him not to put hie clothes on, just a pair of pants for a few minutes. He had hung up the suit he wore from the dance and he grabbed a pair of pants, fatigues, belonging to William Motley who had a bunk next to him (R.86,100), and put on Ms own mackinaw and went to the orderly tent. He didn’t feel in the pockets of these trousers (R.86). Captain Heck and ethers were at the orderly tent and questioned him about being at the Institute and
^yo36
'503
: :--,TlAL
searched him and found a knife, Court’s Exhibit *A’, some cigarettes and keys. He denied ever seeing the knife till it was found in his pocket (R.87,92,102) and insisted the knife and other articles belonged to William Mobley, but he admitted having a similar knife (R,93,101). He was then sent to the guardhduse (R.88). He described the young lady he was with as "sort of heavy set short" brunette, wearing a red coat which she kept on while he danced with her (R.89). She always wore a red coat (R.91)• Asked how Captain Heck searched him, accused answered* "He hit that knife. He said, *What’s that there1, and I brought it out." (R.89). Accused identified the knife by one missing handle. He*first found his wrist was cut outside the door and felt the sting and when he "looked down and *«■** saw the blood was dripping" (R.90,98). Accused denied knowing anyone by the name of Bridget McCowan or knowing the name of the girl he described as wearing*the red coat but said he would know her if he saw her (R.93). Ee insisted he danced that night with only the one girl who wore the red coat (R.94,96).	He sat in the balcony with her and danced with
her twice (R.94) but didn’t remember her name but would remember it if it was told to him. When asked if it was Bridget McCowan he answered "I don’t know, sir" but admitted knowing a girl called Bridie. However, she was not the girl he was with and he denied dancing with Bridie that night and didn’t know whether she wore a red coat or not (R.97). When requested to write his name, accused wrote with his left hand (R.99). He identified a pair of trousers which were admitted in evidence as Defendant’s Exhibit *A*, bearing serial number K9763, as being the trousers belonging to William Mobley which he found laying across the bed and which he had on about midnight of 1 March 1943 at Aintree (R.102,103).
Bridget McCowan. 16£ years old, testified she knew accused and gave his name. She had seen accused previously, and first saw him at the Aintree dance the night of 1 March 1943 at about 9*25 p.m.
He was the only boy she danced with that evening (R.104-105). She was dressed in a pink blouse, blue skirt and red coat, which coat she wore while dancing (R.105), Witness saw no one else in the hall with a red coat (R,107,108). She left the dance hall by herself and met her two sisters and her father and had to wait some time for the "five to eleven" car home (R.105,106). At the end of her dance with accused she said "Thanks" and walked away. She did not at any time leave the dance hall with accused (R.107) nor did she ever gtyfco the station with him (R.114,116). There is an interval during the dances at 9*25 and it was during the interval that she danced with accused. She and accused were alone together talking in the balcony (R.1P7) for but a short time just before they danced, which dance lasVabout five minutes, at the end of which she walked off and talked to Sergeant Cannon. This was before the fight which started after she had danced .vith accused and while witness was dancing with a girl (R.109). She did not know who was fighting and on seeing some blood on the HP’s face, she left and went to the ladies* cloak room.
- 8 -
UL
(43)
First Sergeant Walter G. Cannon, Company B. 383rd Engineer Battalion, testified he was at the Aintree Institute Hall attending the dance on the night of 1 March 194-3* He saw accused when he first entered the dance floor and when accused was dancing (R.121). There was an investigation that night in camp (R.118) . Accused was brought into the orderly room. He had a bruise on one of his hands (R.119).
5* The accused while admitting his presence at the Aintree Institute dance hall on the night of 1 March 194-3, denied that he had committed the assault on Hiller, and testified to facts which if true would show that he had not participated in the fracas and was not present when Hiller received the stab wounds. Stated otherwise, accused*s defense was that of alibi.
While the injured soldier, Hiller, could not identify accused as the one who stabbed him, his testimony is positive and absolute that accused participated in the assault upon him, and that at the time accused was armed with a knife with a blade six inches long. Hiller saw no other knife during the evening (R,29,30,31)* The witness, Rees, identified accused as being one of the colored soldiers who was with Hiller immediately prior to the general disorder (R.23,
4-8). Dr. Gibbons described Hiller* s wounds as being Inflicted by a sharp pointed instrument with a blade not exceeding ■§" to 3/4-M in width and about 3^ in length (R.38) • Gray positively identified accused as the soldier who stabbed Hiller (R.68-70,72,127-131)*
There was also proof that accused had suffered a cut on his left wrist and on one of his fingers (R.59)•	Accused's statement that he was
not present is weakened by the testimony of the witness McCowan (R,105,107,108,116).
An issue of fact was thereby created for determination by the Court, It was wholly within its province to believe or disbelieve accused's testimony or to reconcile it with the prosecution's evidence. There was substantial, competent evidence to sustain the Court's finding that it was accused who stabbed Hiller, and under such circumstances the findings of the Court will not be disturbed by the Board of Review. (CM 14-5791 (1921) j CM 161833 (1924-), CM 192609, Rehearing (1930), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-194-0, par.4-08(2), p.259}
CM ETO 4-92, Lewis).
6* Accused was charged with assault upon Hiller with intent to commit a felony, to-wit murder (Charge I and its Specification).
The evidence shows that accused was one of the numerous assailants of the military policemen at the time and place alleged in the Specification. During the disorder he was armed with a knife. At a critical moment in the fracas Hiller was stabbed. Gray testifies without reservation or qualification that he saw accused strike Hiller with his knife.
9
239336
"SO?,
(u)
C 'iT
—j-: i
IAL
"Assault with intent to murder.- This is an assault aggravated by the concurrence of a specific intent to murderj in other words, it is an attempt to murder. As in other attempts there must be an overt act, beyond mere preparation or threats, or an attempt to make an attempt. *#*#*n. (M.C.M., par.1481, pp.178,179).
There is but one question which can arise under the evidence in this case and that is whether there is proof of a specific intent on the part of accused to commit murder?
The evidence without contradiction shows that the two military policemen, Hiller and 0*Donnell, while in the performance of their duty in maintaining order in the dance hall attempted to remove a soldier, McLurkin, from the hall. They immediately became the objects of an attack by a group of colored soldiers who were present. Accused was one of the group, and was armed with and displayed a dangerous, long bladed knife. The policemen defended themselves against the assault, during which they were both disarmed by their assailants. In the course of the combat, Hiller was stabbed by accused.
From accused’s own evidence he was fully aware that Hiller and O’Donnell were military policemen (R.78,81,99,100). Both were dressed in full uniform (R.33) and wore military police brazards on their arms (R.15,33) • They had been expressly ordered to patrol duty . which included the checking of and maintenance of order in the Aintree Institute dance hall (R.27,47,57). Hiller was an officer within his proper district, and known or generally acknowledged to bear the office he had assumed. When Hiller discovered McLurkin in a public place improperly dressed he was performing his duty in calling such irregularity to his attention. Upon McLurkin becoming disorderly the two military policemen acted entirely within the scope of their authority in attempting to remove him from the dance hall.
Accused gratuitously interfered with Hiller’s performance of his duty to maintain order and deoorum and regardless of Hiller’s conduct in defending himself after he and O’Donnell were assailed, the action of accused in stabbing him was without a shadow of excuse, and there is nothing revealed by the evidence which serves to reduce or mitigate the seriousness of the offense. Had Hiller's death resulted, accused would have been guilty of murder (1 Wharton's Cr.
Law, seo.541» p.778; 29 C.J., seo.68, p.l093)i hence the evidence fully sustains the charge of an assault with intent to commit & felony, to-wit* murder.
There is no evidence in the record that accused made an assault on O’Donnell, consequently the Court was entirely correct in acquitting accused of the charge insofar as it involved O'Donnell.
10
(45)
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty of Charge I and its Specificationt that accused committed an assault upon Hiller with intent to commit a felony, to-wit: murder.
8. The Specification of Charge II alleges that accused wrongfully interfered with the two military policemen, Hiller and O'Donnell, in the lawful execution of their office at the Aintree Institute Dance Hall on 1 March 1943* Such offense is a violation of the 96th Article of War. It is obvious that part of the proof supporting this charge is included within the evidence proving the offense under Charge I and its Specification. There is substantial evidence that accused directly interfered with the two military policemen, Hiller and O'Donnell, when they attempted to remove McLurkin from the dance hall when he became disorderly. While the serious aspect of the interference occurred when accused stabbed Hiller, the preferring of Charge II and its Specification is not in violation of the policy announced in M.C.M., par.27, p.17 "One transaction, or what is substantially one transaction should not be made the basis for an unreasonable multiplication of charges against one person". Involved in its proof is conduct on the part of accused towards both Hiller and O'Donnell constituting a separate and distinct offense from that of the assault with intent to murder Hiller. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty of Charge II and its Specification.
9* The Court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of accused and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial.
The sentence of the Court is legal. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support all of the findings of guilty and the sentence.
10,	Accused is 22 years old. He has been sentenced to 15 years confinement for an act recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by
R.S.5346, Crim. Code, sec.276, 18 U.S.C. 455> and which renders his retention in the service undesirable. War Department Directive (AG 253 (2-6-41) E) 26 February 1941> requires that prisoners under 31 years of age with sentences of not more than 10 years be confined in a Federal Correctional Institution or Reformatory. Inasmuch as the sentence herein is for 15 years, the reviewing authority correctly designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewbburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement. Accused's return to the United States and
- 11 -
^ O J O O {j
to
liji-i f iAl
execution of sentence to dishonorable discharge is authorized (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 Sept 1942, as amended by GO #63, ETOCJSA, 4 Deo 1942)*
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
w—
12
a:::
1st Ind.
(47)
General, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA.
1.	In the case of Pfc. JOE T. RICHMOND (34043109), Company B, 383rd Eng. Bn. (Separate), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this
office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 503. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:	(ETO	503)*
Brigadier General, U. S. Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General
1 Ind:
Holding of Board of Review.

#(49)
