#(19)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General '	~	with	the
European Theater of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1109
UNITED 'STATES )
)
v.	'	.0
)
Private ROT (Ml) ARMSTRONG	)
(6664798), Battery "A", 7th	)
Field Artillery Battalion.	)
)
)
’	)
19	APR 1944
1ST INFANTHT DIVISION.
Trial ty G.C.I!., convened at Palma Di Kontecliiaro, Sicily, 27 September 1943. Sentences Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. NATGUSA Disciplinary Training Center, Casablanca, French Morocco.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BEN3GH0TEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the, soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence in part. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and specifications:*_
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	75th Article of War.
' 'Specification 1:	In	that	Private Roy Armstrong,
Battery A, 7th Field Artillery Battalion, did> at Enna, Sicily, on or about 22 July 1943, while before the enemy, by his misconduct in becoming drunk and disorderly, endanger the safety of his Battery, which it was his duty to defend.
Specification 2:	In	that	Private Roy Armstrong,
Battery A, 7th Field Artillery Battalion, did, at Enna, Sicily, on or about 22 July 1943> while before the enemy, by his misconduct in becoming so drunk he was unable to perform his duties as a cannoneer, endanger the safety of his Battery, which it was his duty to defend.
- 1 -
He pleaded not guilty to and'was found guilty of the Charge and its specifications. Evidence of four previous convictions hy summary courts-martial was introduced:	one	for	two unauthorized absences of four days and five
days respectively, one for two days absence without leave, both in violation , of the 61st Article of War; one for five and a half hours “absence without leave and breaking quarantine, and one for three days absence without leave and breaking quarantine, both in violation of the 6lst and 96th Articles of War. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 20 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, ordered its execution, but suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement and designated the NATOUSA Disciplinary Training Center, Casablanca, French Morocco as the place of confinement.
The proceedings were published in General Court-Martial Order Ko,
83, Headquarters 1st U.S. Infantry Division, APO 1 dated 9 December 194-3.
. 3. Testimony of witnesses for prosecution summarizes as follows:
- Corporal Spero Gianakouros, Headquarters Company, 1st Infantry Division, testified that on the afternoon of July 22, 1943, while on a motor patrol with Private Ote.llo Casistrini in the town of Enna, Sicily, he was stopped by a civilian. As a result of an ensuing conversation with the civilian, Gianakouros and Casistrini accompanied the civilian to a house. After some delay the door was opened by a woman who pointed to a soldier in the room who was carrying a rifle and was engaged in opening the drawers of a bureau. The soldier was disarmed by Gianakouros (R5). He was in a dazed condition, talking incoherently, • and his breath smelled of liquor. In his right hip pocket was a pair of cheap opera glasses (R6). This soldier was the accused Armstrong (B7). He resisted removal from the house. When placed in a jeep to be taken to the police station a civilian asserted that a watch had been taken from him by accused, which was later found, on accused and returned to the owner (R6). At the military police station in Enna, a civilian pointed to him and started speaking in Italian.. The two men seemed to recognize each other. There were indications that accused was responsible for breaking a rifle belonging to the civilian.. Subsequently, accused was taken back to his "outfit". As Gianakouros was leaving the battery a commotion arose. Someone said, "look out, he's going for a stack of rifles." Armstrong ran up a hill, but a noncommissioned officer took hold of him. He cursed the men forming the police escort and threatened them (R7). In the opinion of Gianakouros accused was so drunk he was incapable of performing his duties and did not know what he was doing ' (R8).
Private Otello Casistrini, Headquarters Company, 1st Infantry Division, corroborated Gianakouros' testimony with respect to the discovery of accused, the incidents connected therewith and his condition. In his opinion accused was drunk (RIO-13).
- 2 -
(21)
Private First Class Harris, Headquarters Company, 1st Infantry Division, testified that he was one of the party which returned accused to his organization. He corroborated Gianakouros' testimony with respect to Armstrong's actions and conduct after arriving at the battery location. Harris expressed the opinion that accused was drunk while at the police station and after arrival at the location (R13,1A) •
Captain Lemuel D. Thomas, Jr., Commander of Battery "A", 7th Field Artillery Battalion, identified accused as a member of his organization on 22 July 19A3, and stated that on that day his battery was about 1000 yards south-east of Enna in tactical support of the 16th Infantry. It was in position, layed and ready to fire though no firing was done. The Canadians, located about 10,000 yards to the right of Battery A, had run into opposition and were conducting the nearest-firing (R15). Captain Thomas' battery could fire 12,500 yards. It was in the line, on continuous alert and did not know when it would be called on to fire. The action was not out of range of the battery. It was about 10,000 yards distant, but in order to be effective it would have been compelled to fire close to the city of Leonforte within the Canadians' sector (R17). It had not fired within the previous few days and two days later moved forward through Enna and Calsibetta to Villa Rosa some 20 miles without having fired a shot (R17,18). The military police brought accused to Captain Thomas about four o'clock in the afternoon. He was unsteady on his feet and definitely had been drinking. He was cursing and disorderly. He was in no condition to perform his duties as a cannoneer as he- might have cut fuses so that the shots would have fallen short. Accused did not have permission to leave the area. The battery needed every man (R16).
First Lieutenant Richard J. Nelson, 7th Field Artillery Battalion, stated that he was present on 22 July at Battery A location when accused was brought before Captain' Thomas. His eyes were blood-shot and he was unsteady. He had been drinking and was drunk. He swore in the presence of the battery commander who cautioned him against such conduct (R20). The witness would not have entrusted accused with any duties as he was not in a condition to perform them (R2l).
A.	The defense presented the following witnesses whose testimony was as follows:
Sergeant Lionel J. La Plante, Battery "A", 7th Field Artillery Battalion, in whose charge accused was placed by the battery commander on his return to his unit on 22 July, stated that at that time accused's .condition showed he had been drinking because he was unsteady on his feet; otherwise he appeared normal and gave no trouble (R22-23). He left his unit about noon and was returned at approximately three o'clock in the afternoon. His absence was not reported (R2A).
Sergeant Ernest E. Oakes, Battery "A", 7th Field Artillery Battalion, testified he was at the battery location on 22 July when the military police returned accused to the battery. From a distance of 25 feet he observed accused who showed he had been drinking as he was unsteady on his feet; otherwise he appeared to know what he was doing and seemed to
-.3
* *•
understand what the battery commander said to him when he was placed under arrest (K25)»
Accused elected to remain silent*
• ' ' *
5.	(a)	Accused	was	brought to trial upon two specifications laid under
the 75th Article of War which charge that he did, while before the enemy*
SRggiflcaUoB,JL	,
"by his misconduct in becoming drunk and disorderly,' endanger the safety.of his Battery, which it was his duty to defend"»
Specification 2
"by his misconduct in becoming so drunk he was unable to perform his duties as a cannoneer, endanger the s&fety of his Battery, which it was his duty to defend"•	■
It is difficult to ascertain the intention of the accuser in.his attempt to divide accused's misconduct into two separate ,bffeases*	The
evidence shows that there was but one transaction. Proof of his inability to perform his duties as cannoneer of the battery would have been admissible to show -that in becoming drunk and disorderly he endangered the safety of his battery. The pleader split one offense into separate episodes* This is opposed to principles of good pleading.
"One transaction, or what is substantially ■ -	one transaction, should not be made the
basis for an unreasonable multiplication of charges against one person. Thus a soldier should not be charged with dis- • orderly conduct and for ah assault when the disorderly conduct consisted in mak-'	ing the assault, * * (IKM, 1928, par.
‘ 27, p.17; CM >120542 (1918), Dig.Op.JAG,
1912-1940, sec.428(5), p.294)•
There was but one offense charged, viz: misbehavior before the eneay which consisted of becoming- drunk and disorderly to the extent that he was .unable to perform his duties as cannoneer of the battery.
(b)	A diagrammatic visualization of the pertinent provisions of the 75th Article of War will be helpful in considering the offenses with which accused is charged:
— —
(23)
	)	(1)	misbehaves himself				
	)	(2)	runs away				
	)		or				
Anv officer)before		(3)	shamefully abandons		)any fort)		which it is
	)		or		)	post)	
or	) the	(4)	delivers up	.	)	camp)	his duty
	)		or		)	guard)	
soldier	)enemv	(5)	by any (a) miscon-)endangers)			or )	to
	)		duct (b) disobe- )	the	)	other)	
who	) •		dience or (c) ) safety		)	command)	defend
	)		neglect )■	of	)	)	
Undoubtedly the specifications in the instant case were based upon form 48, p.244- of the Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, Comparing them with the relevant component parts of the Article it is manifest that they coincide with the following reconstructed clause of the Article:
"Any * * * soldier, who, before the enemy,
.	*	* * by any misconduct * * * endangers
the safety of any * * * command which it i3 his duty to defend,"
Clearly the accuser had the aforesaid provision of the statute in mind when he prepared the specifications. Does such intention of the draughtsman confine the prosecution to proof of an offense under the said clause of the Article if.the specifications contain allegations of fact which constitute offenses under some other clause or provision of the statute? The principle governing such situation is announced thus:
"We must look to the indictment itself, and if it properly charges an offense under the laws of the United States that is sufficient to sustain it, although the representative of the United States may have supposed that the offense charged was • covered by a different■statute" (Williams v. United States, 168 U.S. 382, 42 L.Ed.,
509,512).
"* * * the statute on which an indictment is found is determinable, as a matter of law, from the facts charged, and they may bring the offense charged within an existing statute, although the same is not mentioned, and the indictment is brought under another statute." (Vedin v. United States, 257 Fed.
550,551).
As further upholding this principle see: United States v. Nixon, 235 231, 59 L.Ed., 207,209; Wechsler v. United States, 158 Fed. 579,583?
Farley v. United States, 269 Fed. 721,722.
- 5 -
(24)
As a corollary to the above doctrine it is firmly established thats
i
"If the pleader omits an essential element, • the case fails because the pleader cannot shorten the law. If he includes all the essential elements and more, again the pleader cannot enlarge the law, and the case will be sustained and the law vindicated by ignoring the unessential allegations" (Meyer v. United States, 258 Fed,
212,215),*
(See also Fall v. United States, 209 Fed. 547,551; 31 C.J., sec,306, p.748).
The phrase "which it was his duty to defend" may be rejected as surplusage inasmuch as the remaining allegations state facts sufficient to constitute an offense under the clause of the Article which declares that • "any * * * soldier who, before the enemy, misbehaves himself11 is guilty of an offense (CM ETO 1249, Marchetti).	>
The specifications, as consolidated and reconstructed under the authority of the foregoing rules of law, therefore become one specification as followsj
,	"Armstrong	did,	at	Enna, Sicily on or about
22	July 1943,-while before the enemy, misbehave himself by becoming drunk and disorderly to such degree that he was unable to perform hi3 duties as cannoneer."
6,	Considering the case upon its merits’the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty (CM ETO 1249, Marchetti; CM ETO H04, Stack; CM ETO 1659, lee).
7.	With propriety a criticism may be made of the specifications in the instant case. The evidence beyond contradiction proves that accused was guilty of quitting his station for the purpose of plundering and pillaging and did in fact pillage and plunder certain inhabitants of Enna, These facts were made obvious by the preliminary investigation. Accused should have been charged with such offense. It was easy to allege and easy to prove. Much time and effort would have been saved, and the complicated legal problems involved in this case under the present specifications would not have arisen. This situation emphasizes again the importance of exercise of care and a sense of discrimination by a staff judge advocate in the preparatory stage of a case. The Board of Review is constantly required to consider important and critical legal issues in the cases coming before it which would have never arisen had the evidence adduced by the investigation been properly analyzed and the charges drafted consistent with the same. With the greatly increased volume of work now imposed upon the Assistant Judge Advocate General and the Board of Review
• 6 «■
(25)
the intelligent and efficient co-operation of the staff judge advocates in the preparation of their cases is imperative*
8.	The charge sheet shows that accused was 26 years ten months of age.
He enlisted 14 December 1937 at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indiana. He had no prior service.
9.	The court was legally constituted'and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Eeview is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
10.	' The offenses of which accused was found guilty are strictly military offenses. Confinement in the N&TOUSA Discinlinary Training Center, Casablanca, French Morocco, is authorized (AW 42).
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
pa Advocate
- 7 -

#(27)
