#(23)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 492.
UNITED STATES v.
Private First Class WILLIE F. LEWIS (331251A9), Headquarters and Service Company, 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion.
11 JUH 1943
) EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES ) OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF ) OPERATIONS.
)
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England,
) 12 May 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable ) discharge, forfeiture of all pay ) and allowances due or to become ) due and confinement at hard labor ) for 15 years.
) Penitentiary.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier above named has been examined by the Board of Review.
2* The accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	Private First Class Willie
F. Lewis, Headquarters and Service Company, 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, did, near Eye Airdrome, Suffolk, England on or about 18 April 1943, with intent to commit a felony, viz: Rape, commit an assault upon Private Joan Swarbrick, 45th South Eastern Platoon, ATS, by willfully and feloniously grasping the arm of the said Private Swarbrick and forcing her to the ground and attempting to have sexual intercourse with her.
- 1 -
M/»;' ! uEN i IhL
i&Q332
492
CONFIDENTIAL
Specification 2:	In that Private First Class Willie
F. Lewis, Headquarters and Service Company, 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, did, near Eye, Airdrome,
Suffolk, England, on or about 18 April 1943 with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon Technician 5th Grade John M, Black, Company A 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, by willfully and feloniously striking the said Technician Fifth Grade Black in the face with his fist,
CHARGE lit Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification! In that Private First Class Willie F,'
Lewis, Headquarters and Service Company, 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, did, at Eye Airdrome,
Suffolk, England, on or about 18 April 1943, wrongfully and without lawful permission or authority take and use a two and one-half (2^) ton G.M.C. cargo truck, property of the United States.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of all the Charges and Specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for a period of fifteen years.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50^.
3.	On 17 April 1943, accused was stationed, with his unit, at Eye Airdrome, Suffolk, England (R.35). He was one of the regular truck drivers (R.29). On Saturday night, 17 April 1943, he was selected with Corporal Arthur Fitts to drive two G.M.C. 2k ton trucks to take the "men to the dance at Fressingfield" (R.25,30), which is about 12 miles distant from the Eye Airdrome (R.25). Both men with their trucks left the motor pool at about 6:30 or 7:00 P.M., on 17 April 1943 (R.30) and drove to the dance together (R.33). The dance concluded at 11:30 P.M., (R.34) and both trucks were loaded with soldiers for the return to Eye Airdrome (R.33)* On the way back to the Airdrome the Command car with the Chaplain in it stopped wheg&bout 3 or 4 miles from camp, Fitts stopped his truck, and accused allowed his truck which was third in line to bump into the rear of the truck driven by Fitts (R.40). Fitts got back to the battalion area about mid-night (R.33) and left his truck in the parking area of the Headquarters Company (R.31,34,40). Between mia-nignt ana 1:00 A.M., 18 April 1943 he went to the motor pool for a flash-light (R.31,33)* Accused in his unsworn statement declares that they stayed at the dance until 11:30 P.M.j that on the return trip his
r- ^ o ”•*>
492
truck bumped Fitts* truck; that he came back to the camp, put off the men, and left his truck at the motor pool around 12:00 X.M., or 12:30 A.M., 18 April 194-3• He further avers, in his statement, that he rode in a truck he "believed was Fitts" from the motor pool to Headquarters and Service Company, 827th, where he got out of the back of the truck and went to his hut and went to bed and slept until reveille (R.40).
Joan Swarbrick, a private of the British 45th South Eastern Platoon, (ATS), (R.7,14) Wellington Road, Brighton, Sussex,' England, was an acquaintance of some six months of Corporal John Black "of the 827th" and without having made any previous arrangement, came by train via London, to Diss (R.14) meeting Black about 9:30 Saturday evening outside the American Red Cross at Eye (R.15). Later in the evening about 11 o’clock being unable to get any place to stay in Eye (R.15), she and Black started to walk the five miles from Eye to Diss so that she could take a train back to London (R.8,15). Some distance along the road they met an American soldier (Corporal Young) who loaned them his bicycle (R.15) and later they met a second American soldier who said he would send them another bicycle. While waiting for this bicycle accused came along driving an army truck and told them he was a guard patrol picking up all girls walking with soldiers along that road and said something about getting off the road (R.15). It was a moonlight night and she could see accused’s face and recognized him as an American soldier (R.16). By this time both Black and Pvt. Swarbrick each had bicycles (R.16). They separated from accused but he returned and came along the road after them. Black and Pvt. Swarbrick turned left into another road. Accused turned down another road and met them at the bottom of the road traveled by the couple (R.16). He said Provost Marshal and another officer were "sitting at the end of the road and he would have to take me (Pvt. Swarbrick) back to camp for a medical examination" (R.16). When she refused, accused'hit Black on the jaw three times and also hit Pvt. Swarbrick just below the left eye. Black fell and cut his head on the "floor". "He didn't know what hit him.
*** He neve£ spoke anymore" (R.16). Accused forced both of them into the front/of1 the truck and drove down the road a little way when he stopped, took Pvt. Swarbrick by her arm out of the truck, and threatened that if she "didn't do it" she would get hurt (R.16).	He had a pistol.
She refused accused’s order to get down on the grass.	Accused told
her that she would "get the same" as Black. Accused then pulled her to the ground and demanded that she take off her clothes. On her refusal he started to remove her "pantees". He "came down very heavy" on top of her. Although she tried to get up she could not move. She was "very scared" but resisted the attack (R.17). Accused had put Black and the bicycles out of the truck at the first stop but drove Pvt. Swarbrick around until about 4:30 or 5:00 o'clock Sunday morning,
18 April 19-4-u, when accused left her at the station at Diss after making at least four further attempts to attack her, and each time she resisted.
- 3 -
r	f >	-
ivOU J oi
492
(26)
f • f ■ i
OENIIAL
She returned to camp where Black was stationed at about 6:00 in the morning and reported accused and was physically examined by Capt. Minor of the Medical Corps that afternoon (R.17,18). She saw accused later that Sunday morning at the American Red Cross Club about 11 or 11:30 o’clock A.H., when accused showed them his identification card (R.18)* She recognized accused independent of his identification card (R.18).
Corporal John M. Black, as a prosecution witness, confirmed Pvt. Swarbrick1s testimony in the main part (R.7,8,9). Accused in the Army truck came up to Black and Pvt. Swarbrick as they were walking on the road from Eye to Diss, about 12:30 A.M. He could see accused’s face and positively identified him. It was a moonlight night (R.9,10, 12). Accused told them "I am working for Captain Minor and Lieutenant Conti, and I am supposed to pick up all girls on the road with soldiers. **** If you get off the road with her, it is all right". Then accused drove off and Black and the girl continued on with their bicycles. Corporal Young had earlier met them on the road and loaned them his bicycle and had sent soldier, James Barber, to bring them another bicycle (R.8). Barber had arrived about the same time as accused and the truck, and got in the truck and left with accused after the above conversation. About 10 minutes later the truck returned and detouring, stopped so as to block the rojag^raveled by the couple. Accused said: "Captain Minor and Lieutenant/saw me stop, and they knew it was a girl, and I will have to take your name”. Black testified that he shone his light in accused’3 face and then looked through the truck (R.10). Accused stepped out of the truck and hit Black on the left side of the face (R.10), knocking him out (R.ll). "That’s all I remember. When I come to I was in a daze".	When Black came to he was on the ground in
a different place (R.13).	Upon his memory being refreshed he
remembered being put out of the truck by accused, also seeing accused pull Pvt, Swarbrick back into the truck (R.12,13). He got back to headquarters about 7:30 Sunday morning (R.ll). He saw accused later that Sunday morning, and identified him in court as the same man who punched him and who spoke to him about Captain Minor and the Lieutenant (R.12).
Private James E. Barber, a prosecution witness, took his bicycle out to Black who was with a girl in British uniform on the side of the road between Diss and the camp (R.21). Accused alone arrived with a truck at about the same time and told them that the Provost Marshal had him out to pick up girls and that he was going to take all girls in but that he would take all three to where they were going.
Black said they would use their bicycles. Barber gave Black his bicycle. Black and the girl got on the bicycles. Barber got in the truck and rode with accused who took him to camp where Barber left the truck. Accused "turned around and went back straight the way he come.
I heard the sound of the truck stop and everything" (R.22). This all took place around two o'clock Sunday morning (R.22). Barber saw
~ U m
r\	:	•.. v .
; 4	i	.
239332
492
CONFIDENTIAL
(27)
accused again about ten o'clock that Sunday morning in his hut. "I asked him where my pocket book was that I had left in his truck" last night, and he said "he didn't have one last night". Earber recognized accused as the one who drove the truck and who had spoken to Black and the girl. It was moonlight, "almost bright as day" (R.23).
Captain Allen H. Minor. M.C., Battalion Surgeon of the 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, testified that he gave Private Swarbrick a complete examination about 2 o'clock on Sunday, 18 April 194-3, based on the complaint herein. He found a small bruise above the left eye and bruises and chafed areas about the genital region. The bruises and roughness and freshness in her genital region indicated to Captain Minor that a sexual attack had been made on her but there had been no penetration (R.19). He also examined Black about 7*30 A.M., that morning and found lacerations of the scalp and a bruise on the back part of the scalp. Black appeared to have been struck on the back of the head and was in a dazed condition. He was placed in quarters. A blow similar to the one he received would cause a concussion (R.20).
Second Lieutenant Yfvatt P. Best, transportation officer of 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, a prosecution witness, testified that accused was selected on Saturday, 17 April 1943, to drive an entertainment truck to be accompanied bv the Chaplain and to use the truck for the time needed. It was a 2f ton G.M.C., truck, property of the United States. The dance closed at 10:30 P.M., and accused had ample time to take the men back from the dance 12 miles away and go to the motor pool by 12 o'clock, mid-night. If he was driving the truck after mid-night without any officer or Chaplain, it was unauthorized. Accused had had his rights and privileges concerning the use of the truck explained to him numerous times and his duty was to return the truck to the motor pool after the use for the truck was accomplished (R.25). The Provost Marshal reported the Lewis truck illegally used and his dispatcher reported it "returned to the motor park approximately 4*30 the following morning". The other truck dispatched to the same dance returned approximately quarter to 12 or 12 o'clock (R.26). Accused is one of the regular drivers (R.29) and knew that when he brought the truck in he should have signed in (R.29)*
Corporal James Monroe. 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, identified accused. Monroe was the dispatcher to check the trucks out and in from 7 o'clock Saturday morning, 17 April 1943, till about one o'clock the next day and he slept at the motor pool.	He issued	a
2\ ton G.M.C., truck to accused about 6:30 or 7:00 o'clock in the evening of Saturday, 17 April 1943 to go "on the recreation to a dance at Fressingfield", to be returned "about midnight". A similar truck was issued to Corporal Arthur Fitts for the same purpose (R.30) and Fitts returned to the motor pool between 12 and 1 o'clock. Accused had not then come in and witness did not know at what time accused's
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
39J32
492
(28)
truck was brought in (R.31)
CONHnPlT'AL
Corporal Arthur Fitts. 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, a prosecution witness, was in charge of a ^ ton G.M.C., truck on Saturday, 17 April 194-3. Accused had a similar truck and they were supposed to take men to the dance at Fressingfield. The dance did not break up until 11s30 P.M., when both witness and accused loaded up the soldiers at the dance. Fitts came back to the company arriving about midnight, put out the men and left the truck in the battalion area about 1 o’clock (R.33,3A,35). Witness did not see accused after the dance. (R.35).
Private Marvin Lindsay (R.35,36) and Private First Class Waverly C. Coles (R.37,38), defense witnesses, both testified they slept in the same hut with accused and that they each saw accused in his bed around 1 or 1:30 but neither had a watch and in each case they only guessed the time (R.37,38,39)•
A. Assault with intent to commit rape "is an attempt to commit rape in which the overt act amounts to an assault upon the woman intended to. be ravished. ***** The intent to have carnal knowledge of the woman assaulted by force and without her consent must exist and concur with the assault. In other words, the man must intend to overcome any resistance by force, actual or constructive, and penetrate the woman’s person. Any less intent will not suffice. Once an assault with intent to commit rape is made, it is no defense that the man voluntarily desisted". (M.C.M., par.lASf, p.179).
"*** The law presumes that a person who voluntarily did an act intended to do that which he did and intended the natural and probable consequences of doing it, unless the circumstances raise a reasonable doubt as to what his intentions were. *****
However, since intention is a fact which cannot be positively known to other persons, no one can testify directly concerning it and the matter must be an inference which the jury must find from the established facts. »***". (1 Wharton's Cr. Ev., sec.79, p.96).
Specification 1 of Charge I alleges but one assault with intent to commit rape upon the person of Pvt. Swarbrick on 18 April 19A3. The testimony of Pvt. Swarbrick discloses that accused assaulted her with the intent to commit rape on at least five occasions during the course of the forced truck ride with accused during the early morning of said date. The evidence was first directed at and is specific and particular as to the first act of assault committed by accused at the time Black and the bicycles were thrown out of the truck by accused. A motion by the defense to require the prosecution to
239532
492
(29)
TirtL
elect the act upon which it seeks to rely for conviction would have been proper when Pvt.Swarbrick testified as to four other assaults,
(16 C.J., secs,2168 & 2169, pp.860,861; 32 C.J., sec.138, p.1106).
No such motion was made. The Court, therefore, should treat the first act as to which the prosecution introduced evidence as the act upon which it elects to rely. (52 C.J., sec.138, p.1107; 16 C.J., sec.2177, p.863j 23 C.J.S., sec.1044, p.434). The Board of Review, sitting in appellate review, will therefore consider only the assault upon Pvt. Swarbrick by accused at the time of Black's eviction from the truck.
The evidence clearly shows that accused, upon halting the truck, made Pvt. Swarbrick dismount therefrom. He took her by the arm and walked her down the road. He had a pistol. He threatened the young woman that if she did not consent to an act of sexual intercourse, she would be hurt. He commanded her: "Get on to the grass" and upon being met with a refusal he said: "Get down there.
You know what Black got, and you will get the same". He took her by the arm and pulled her to the ground. Tihen she refused his demand to disrobe he commenced to take her "pantees" off. Finally he "came down very heavy on top" of her as she lay on the ground. She resisted and was scared (R.16,17). There was no penetration.
This evidence stands uncontradicted, and presents all of the necessary elements of proof of the crime charged. There was a factual assault upon Pvt. Swarbrick with intent to have intercourse with her by force and against her will, notwithstanding resistance on her part, and accused was in a position to effect his intent had he not been defeated by her resistance. Every element of the crime of rape was shown except penetration. The young woman suffered from all of the indignities and injuries of the detestable crime of rape, except the actual accomplishment of that crime. (U.C.M., par.148b, p.165; 52 C.J., sec.35, p.1026).	V/hile it is true that rape and its lesser included
offense, assault with intent to commit rape, are within that class of crimes where an accusation is "easy to be made, hard to be proved but harder to be defended by the party accused, though innocent" (LI.C.M., par.148b, p.165), in the instant case, the victim’s testimony receives substantial corroboration. Capt. ilinor,	testified
that upon an examination of her the afternoon following the assault, he found physical evidence in her genital region of recently inflicted bruises and chafing, and expressed the opinion that she had been subjected to a sexual attack. Black’s version of events immediately prior to and leading up to the first attack on the young woman by accused fits accurately into the composite picture. He was the companion of Pvt. Swarbrick. He stood between accused and the effecting of his vile purpose on her person. Accused twice intercepted Black and his young woman companion. The first time he informed them "*** I am supposed to pick up all girls on the road with soldiers ***
If you get off the road with her it is all right". Returning later
-.l.
33332
492
(30)
he announced that “Captain Minor and Lieutenant Conti saw me stop, and they knew it was a girl, and I will have to take your name" (R.10).
Accused then without notice or warning stepped from the truck and struck Black a brutal blow which rendered him helpless. After being placed in the truck by accused in company with the Pvt. Swarbrick and driven a distance, Black and the bicycles were put out of the truck and were left by the way side. Black remembered seeing accused put the young woman back in the truck.
In the opinion of the Board of Review the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of the Court that accused was guilty of an assault with intent to commit a felony, viz: rape, upon the person of Pvt. Swarbrick (Charge I, Specification 1).
5. Accused without provocation or warning struck Black in the face with his fist. The blow knocked Black to the ground. Upon falling he struck his head on the ground. He was rendered temporarily unconscious . The blow was undoubtedly a vicious, disabling one. Black's testimony
in this regard is corroborated by that of Pvt. Swarbrick, The physical examination of Black at 7:30 A.M., on 18 April 1943 by Captain Minor showed that he had sustained head injuries and had suffered a concussion of the brain. At the time of the examination he was yet in a dazed condition and was placed in quarters (R.20).
In the opinion of the Board of Review the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of the Court that accused was guilty of an assault with intent to do bodily harm upon Black (Charge I, Specification 2). (M.C.M., par,149s, p.lSO),
6.	' With respect to Charge II and its Specification whereby accused is charged with a violation of the 96th Article of War in that he did on 18 April 1943 "wrongfully and without lawful permission or authority take and use" a Government cargo truck is fully proved by the evidence, and the record is legally sufficient to sustain the conviction (CM:
ETO 393, Caton and Flkes). It was clearly proved that instead of returning the vehicle to the motor pool upon completion of the dity to which he had been assigned, accused, without authority, wrongfully used it for his own purposes.
The Specification fails to place a value on the "two and one-half (2^-) ton G.M.C, cargo truck, property of the United States" and no testimony was given as to its value. The testimony does show that it was a 2^ ton 10 wheel truck. Considering the type of vehicle concerned, the court may properly assume that the truck was at least of a value not in excess of $20. The failure to allege any valuation in the specification was not an error v/hich in the light of the proof in this case, prejudicially affected the substantial rights of the accused. (CM 124566 (1919)j 1912-1940 Dig.Ops.JAG., par.451(36) p.323)). The offense of wrongfully and without lawful permission or authority.
•• 8 ••
• iu ’ 11 IrtL
492
:;. TI
o v • • I i U w i < k I'
(31)
taking and using the truck is an offense similar to larceny and the same punishment may be imposed therefor, (par.7, Military Justice Bui., JAGO,, 6 Kay 1942). The fact that a value was neither alleged nor proved, does not affect the legality of the sentence. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge II and its Specification.
7.	The defense was the plea of alibi. In substantiation of same accused made an unsworn statement wherein he claimed he returned to the camp from the dance, put off the soldiers, went to C. Company to deliver a sergeant, proceeded to the motor pool around 12 mid-night and 12:30 A.M., 18 April 1943 and left his truck. He then rode from the pool on a 2£ ton truck, which he believed was driven by Fitts to the 827th Headquarters and Service Company where he left the truck and proceeded to his hut.
Testimony of Pvt, Marvin Lindsay (R.35) and Pfc. Waverly C. Coles was presented by the defense in corroboration. Both of these witnesses asserted that they were hut mates of accused; that they were awake at about 1:30 A.M., 18 April 1943 and saw accused asleep in his bed. However, each witness admitted he was guessing at the time.
The accused was positively identified by Black and Pvt. Swarbrick as being the individual who inflicted the injuries upon Black and who afterwards assaulted the young woman with the intention of raping her. Barber's testimony also serves to corroborate such identification. The evidence given by Fitts shows that accused was in possession of a motor truck on the night in question which closely resembled the truck driven by the individual who committed the crimes in question.
The burden of proof rested upon the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the crimes alleged had been committed and that it was accused who committed these crimes. The plea of alibi does not deny the corpus delicti.
»*** its only design is to prove that the defendant, being in another place at the time, could not have committed the offense charged. Impossibility of presence at the time and in the place charged is the essential feature of this defense, and any proof tending to show that it was reasonably impossible for the accused to have been present at the time and place of the commission of the offense charged is sufficient to establish the defense. The rule is well settled that the defendant is entitled to an acquittal if the evidence respecting alibi, together with all the evidence of the case, raises a
239532
492
(32)
uiU'iDEHTlAL
reasonable doubt of guilt. In other words, if there is a reasonable doubt of the defendant’s presence at the scene of the alleged crime at the time of its commission, arising upon all the evidence, the jury should acquit; and this reasonable doubt may arise from lack of evidence of defendant’s presence at the time and place in question, or from evidence offered by the defendant to prove that he was then at another place,***"
(1 Wharton's Criminal Law, 12th Ed,, sec,381, pp.505,506).
The prosecution's evidence identifying the accused as the individual who committed the criminal acts at the time and place alleged is in conflict with the accused's unsworn statement and ihe • evidence of his witnesses. It was the duty and province of the Court to resolve this conflict. By its findings it has rejected accused's evidence and his unsworn statement in support of his plea of alibi and has accepted the prosecution's evidence. There is substantial evidence in the record to sustain the findings of the court. Under such circumstances the findings of the Court are binding upon the Board of Review,
8,	The use by the Trial Judge Advocate of the prior written statement made by Black to refresh his memory (R.11,12) when ha appeared as a witness for the prosecution was proper. (C1I» ETO A38, Smith).
9.	In copying the affidavit to the Charge and Specifications from the Charge Sheet into the record of trial, the words "ar.d charges" are omitted. Also the indorsement of reference for trial is headed "EBS, SOS, ETOUSA" while the words "Eastern Base Section" are written in full when copied into the record. These irregularities do not prejudice the rights of accused, but the record should reflect an accurate copy of the originals.
10.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of accused and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial.
The sentence of the court is legal. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support all of the findings of guilty and the sentence.
11.	"Jar Department directive (AG 253 (2-6-41) E) 26 February 1941, requires that prisoners under 31 years of age with sentences of not more than ten years be confined in a Federal Correctional
10 -
ji-MTIAL
239532
(33)
COiifIL'ENTIAL
Institution or Reformatory. Inasmucn as the sentence herein is for 15 years, the reviewing authority correctly fixed the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement of accused.
(ABSENT ON TEMPORAL DUTY) Judge Advocate
- 11 -
239532
C0;\ FiL'ENTIAL
492
TO: Commanding
V®, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.
Officer, Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA.
1.	In the case of Pfc. WILLIE F. LEWIS (33125149), Headquarters and Service Company, 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50sr> you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence*
2* When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 492. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:	(ETO 492).
I
Brigadier General, AsslJ&ant Judge Advocate General.
1 Incl:
Holding of Board of Review*
#(35)
