#(211)
COHFIDtHTIM
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater
APO 871*
Board of Review.
ETO 255.
UNITED STATES	)
)
v.	)
)
Private DAVID COBB (3Ul652l|8),	)
Company C, 827th Engineer	)
Battalion (Aviation).	)
of Operations
19 FEB 1943
SERVICES OF SUPPLY EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M. convened at Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, England, 6 January 19U3. Sentence:	To	be	hanged	by
the neck until dead.
HOLDING of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
-------------------------------- \
1.	Th© record of trial in the case of the. soldier named above, having been referred by the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, the confirming authority, prior to his action thereon, and pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 1*6, to the Judge"' Advocate General in charge of the Office of The Judge Advocate General in the European Theater of Operations, who, under the provisions of * the last paragraph of Article of War 50^, has, with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, and, to the end that the accused should have an independent review of the record of his trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in keeping with the spirit of Article of War 5O3, having been referred by the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations to the Board of Review for examination and review, has been examined by the Board of Review, which submits this, its opinion and holding thereon, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the 92nd Article of War.
_	_ Specification:	In	that	Private	David	Cobb,
Company C, 827th Engineer Battalion (Aviation) did at Company C, 827th Engineer Battalion (Aviation) Guardhouse,
P; '•« :I i	^
■ •
Ordnance Depot, Desborough, Northamptonshire,
England, on 27 December 19U2, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation kill one, 2nd Lt Robert J.
Cobner, a human being by shooting him with a rifle.
He pleaded not guilty to, and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 1*8.
3.	The review of the evidence in the case, by the Assistant Staff Judge Advocate, is clear and comprehensive and is substantially . adopted herein. The evidence shows that deceased. Lieutenant Cobner, was on duty as Officer of the Day for the period from 1600 hours 26 December until the same hour the following day. (R.6, 7, 19, *21*, 29). That as such Officer of the Day he had guard mount at about 1530 hours on 26 December. The Sergeant of the Guard testified that accused was present at.the time. (R.12). This fact, however, is denied by the accused. (R.i*2). The evidence further shows that Corporal William Mason, Jr,, was Sergeant of the Guard (R.6) and had placed the accused at a stationary post at the guard-house (R.6). Private Samuel L.
Jacobs was on guard at Post No.2, which was about ten feet in front of the guard-house (R.19).
Between 1000 and 1100 hours, 27 December 19U2, Lieutenant Cobner came to the guard-house to have some'beds moved and to have the premises policed. The accused told him that he was not going to stand post any longer for the reason that he had been on duty for four hours. While talking to the officer the accused was carrying his rifle across his shoulder in an improper manner. The deceased told him to act like a soldier, and while addressing an officer, to stand at attention (R.39j U8). The accused replied that he dia not care as he had been restricted for six months (R.31-33).	The deceased
called a guard to arrest accused and to put him in the guard-house.
When the guard walked towards Cobb, the accused brought his gun down to his waist, pointed it at the guard and halted him. The Ceigeant of the Guard was then directed by the deceased to arrest accused, who pointed the gun at him and ordered him to halt (R.10, 22, 31-33)* The accused said that he would not give his gun to anyone until he was properly relieved (R.39). ' When the Sergeant of the Guard failed to take the piece, deceased started towards Cobb to take the gun, and when within two or three steps, the accused shot him (R.10, 22, 31-33, 3U-37, 39). The deceased fell to the ground and.death was almost instantaneous due to the fact that the bullet penetrated the heart (R.18). After the shot was fired, accused pointed the rifle at the Sergeant of the Guard and the others standing nearby and directed them to place the body of deceased in a jeep and take him to headquarters (R.ll, 13). After the § shooting, accused addressed the group and asked, - if there was anyone who didn't like what he had done (R.31-33, U9).	...___-
(212)
The evidence shows the deceased made no threatening motion "with his gun towards the accused prior to the time he was shot (R.11-12,
22,	3k-37), and accused did not so contend at the trial of the case.
All the witnesses, except accused, testifying on the subject, stated that Cobb did not call ’'halt'* to deceased before he fired the shot (R.10, 23, 2U, 39, ll9).
The testimony of the accused is substantially as follows:	He
had been in the Army for one year, and had been taught that the proper way to relieve a guard was for the Sergeant or Corporal of the Guard to bring a relief (R.liO). That he went on duty at midnight,
26 December 19b2 and stood his post for five hours; he was relieved and again went on duty at 1000 hours the following day. That his post was at the guard-house. Lieutenant Cobner and the Sergeant of the Guard came to the guard-house at about 1130 hours. Accused asked the Sergeant of the Guard when he could get a relief so that he would not have to walk his post for so long and not receiving an answer, inquired of the deceased if there would be any possibility of being relieved from the post so as to go and eat before going on his next post. Lieutenant Cobner replied that it did not make any difference to him whether he got relieved or not, and that it was not his 'fault he had to walk guard around that post but that it was the fault of the men inside. Lieutenant Cobner then told the Sergeant of the Guard to take accused's rifle and put him in the guard-house. Cobb further testified that when the Sergeant of the Guard attempted to take his rifle he halted him and stated:	"You	can't	give	me an order where you can
take that gun on this post, remember I am on guard." That the lieutenant then made a fast step towards him and he attempted to halt him. The last words of the deceased were:	"Soldier, give me that gun."
The accused testified that when deceased reached for the gun he shot him; he did not know Lieutenant Cobner was the Officer of the Day.
The accused was relieved of his post about fifteen minutes after the shooting. - He further testified that he had been on guard duty about twelve times (R.)4l-li2). In answer to a question by the court, he testified that if he had known that Lieutenant Cobner was Officer of the Day he would have obeyed his order (R.U6). The accused denied that Private Jacobs made any effort to take his gun or that he ever pointed the gun at him (R.lJi); he further denied that tie deceased told him to carry his gun like a soldier. The accused admitted, however, that he knew that Corporal William Mason, Jr., was the Sergeant of the Guard. With reference to the shooting, accused stated that he tried to hit deceased in the hip in order to stop him.
Upon inquiry by a member of the court as to why he did not give the Sergeant of the Guard his piece, he replied that he was supposed to be properly relieved. Later he testified -hat he was afraid to give it to him (R.U6). He further stated that at no time did he ask the Sergeant or Corporal of the Guard to get the Officer of the Day (R.U7). The accused, while on the witness stand was unable to quote or give the substance of any of the General Orders (R.I46).
h.
ff,?068
"Murder, at common law, is the Unlawful killing, by a person of sound memory and discretion, of ary reasonable creature in being aid under the peace of the State, with malice aforethought either express or implied." (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents, 1920 Reprint, pg. 673).
- 3 - -	•
255
1
(2U)
"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being -with malice aforethought." M.C.M. par.ll+8, pg. 162).
"Murder, as defined at common law, is where a person of sound memory and discretion unlawfully and feloniously kills in any county of the realm, any reasonable creature, that is, any human being in rerum natura.in the peace of the sovereign, with malice prepense or aforethought, either express or implied, that is, with deliberate intent or formed design so to do." (Wharton's Criminal Law, par. 1*19, pg. 626).
"■SHHtti- A deliberate intent to kill must exist at the moment when the act of killing is perpetrated to render the homicide murder. Such intent may be inferred under the rule ' that everyone is presumed to intend the natural consequence of his act." (Wharton's Criminal Law, pg. 633).
"The term malice, as ordinarily employed in criminal law, is a strictly legal term, meaning not personal spite or hostility but simply the wrongful intent essential to the commission of crime.##** In every cause of apparently deliberate and unjustifiable killing, the law presumes the existence of the malice necessary to constitute murder, and devolves upon thq4ccused the onus of rebutting the presumption. In other words, where in the fact and circumstance of the killing as committed no defense appears, the accused must, show that the act was either no crime at all or a crime less than murder;, otherwise it will be held to be murder in law." (¥inthrop's Military Law and Precedents, 1920 Reprint, pgs. 672-673).
"Malice aforethought. - Malice does not necessarily mean hatred or personal ill-will toward the person killed, nor an actual intent to take his life, or even to take anyone's life. The use of the word 'aforethought' does not mean that the malice must exist for any particular time before commission of the act, or that the intention to kill must have previously existed. It is sufficient that it exist V. at the time the act is committed. (Clark).
-\
,\
P5RC68
(215)
"Malice aforethought may exist when the act is unpremeditated. It may mean any one or more of the following states of mind preceding or coexisting with the act or omission by which death is caused:	an
I	intention	to	cause the death of, or grievous
bodily ham to, any person, whether such person is the person actually killed or not (except when death is inflicted in the heat of sudden passion, caused by adequate provocation); knowledge that the act which causes death will probably cause the death of, or grievous bodily ham to, any person, whether such person is the person actually killed or not, although such knowledge is accompanied by indifference whether death or grievous bodily ham is caused or not or by a wish that it may not be caused; intent to commit any felony. (See lU9d—Burglary)."
(Par.ll*8a, M.G.M., pg.163; lF A L R 917;
CM 22l6IiO - Loper).
5.	The facts in this case show that deceased was the Officer of the Day at the time of his death. This fact was known to all the guards, and it is reasonable to presume that it was known to the accused, he having requested relief as a guard from deceased. The testimony of the unbiased witnesses shows that accused was improperly holding his rifle; stated that he would not stand his post any longer, and refused to come to attention when directed to do so by Lieutenant Cobner. Based upon these facts, the officer felt Justified in ordering the arrest of accused. He attempted to effect this purpose by directing the Corporal of the.Guard, and upon his failure to do so, the Sergeant of the Guard, to relieve the accused of his rifle and place him in the guard-house. In both instances accused drew his rifle and halted the non-commissioned officers. In order to summarily deal with this insubordination. Lieutenant Cobner, as Officer of the Day, attempted to relieve Cobb of his rifle, and place him in the guard-house, when he was shot and killed by the accused. As a defense, accused attempts to portray for himself the character of a model soldier in the performance of his duties as a sentinel. His conduct does not sustain the character. According to his own statement he had previously been restricted for six months. The facts show that he was insubordinate to a superior officer. While stating that he did not know the Officer of the Day, he made no attempt to ascertain who was acting' in such capacity. The record further discloses that accused drew his rifle on both the Corporal and Sergeant of the Guard whom he knew were acting in such capacities. While having acted as guard on twelve different occasions, accused "couldn’t say" that he knew the General Orders, nor could he give the substance of any such BO6Borders. As such model soldier the accused defends his conduct on the
ground that the deceased had issued an illegal order in that he had not been properly relieved as a guard; that the officer had no authority to take his gun, and that he was entitled to take the life of deceased in order to prevent the officer from carrying out his purpose. The
- * ”C0Nnch-;i>.i
CONFIDENTIAL
accused stated upon examination by the court that he would have complied with the orders of Lieutenant Cobner if he had known that he was Officer of the Day.
The evidence plainly tends to show that accused felt that he had been wronged by the imposing on him of extra guard duty which feeling was aggravated by the failure of deceased to relieve him when requested to do so. In the course of events he perpetrated the crime, regardless of the consequences of such act and with a heartless and callous contempt for human life. In the opinion of the Board, the crime was murder.
6.	The record and accompanying papers fail to show that the officer administering the oath to the accuser on his affidavit to the charges, was properly authorized to do so. His official character is shown as "Investigating Officer". Investigating officers, As such, have authority to administer oaths only with respect to matters in connection with investigations they are detailed to conduct (AW 111*). It appears that Lieutenant Colonel Nealon, who administered the oath, was detailed to investigate the charges the day after the oath was administered. No objection was raised to this irregularity and it in no way prejudices
any right of the accused (Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-30, sec. 1267, and Dig.Ops. JAG. 1912-1;0, sec. 1*28(7)).	(
7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the accused. The sentence is legal. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of' trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
WAR DEPARTMENT, Office of The Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, A.P.O. 871, U.S. Army. J 9 FEB 1945
TOs Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, U.S.Army. APO 887*
1.	Herewith transmitted is the record of trial, together with the opinion of the Board of Review, in the case of Private DAVID COBB, 5'-fr6%^2l*8), Company C, 827th Engineer Battalion (Aviation).
Judge Advocate.
1st Ind.
2.	Upon trial by General Court-martial this soldier was found
. 6 - CONFIDENTIAL
xjw:i; -.L'i.'i	(217)
guilty of murder in violation of Article of War 92. He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead. The reviewing authority approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial to you, for your action, under Article of War J4.8.
—j
3.	Prior to your actipn thereon, you referred the record to me under the provisions of Article of War 1*6, and, in order to expedite final action in the case, and more especially, to insure to the accused the independent and impartial examination of the record of trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in keeping with the spirit of Articles of War 1*8 and under the provisions of the latter article and, before examination by me, I referred the record to the Board of Review for its examination and opinion. Normally, pursuant to instructions of The Judge Advocate General,.action by the confirming authority (other than the President) is required, under the provisions of the third paragraph of Article of War before the record is referred to the Board of Review and to me as Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations. However, your reference of the record to me, prior to your action thereon, under the' provisions of Article of War JLj.6, which expressly authorizes such reference, since I, as Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations, have, under the provisions of the last paragraph of Article of War $0J, with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, changes the normal situation indicated above. Under such circumstances, should I pass on the record under Article of War 1*6, in lieu of and as your staff judge advocate, and return the record for your action prior to its examination by the Board of Review, it would then be necessary, after your action, for the Board of Review and myself, as Judge Advocate General foiythe European’ Theater of Operations, to examine the record to determine its legal sufficiency. Such a procedure would deny the accused the independent review of the record by the Board of Review provided by Article of War 5oJ, since the report of my examination and my recommendation under Article of War 1*6 would be a part of the file of the case when it reached the Board of Review. It would also place me in the anomalous position of acting as staff judge advocate under Article of War 1*6 before the review of the Baa'd of Review and as Judge Advocate General of the European Theater of Operations after such review under Article of War 1*8 and	In	my	opinion,	to	follow	such
a procedure would deny the accused a substantial right given him by Articlesof War 1*8 and 5>0g-. On the other hand, the procedure I have adopted denies the accused nothing,but -to the contrary fully protects his rights. I am convinced this is the procedure The Judge Advocate General would follow on a reference to him, under Article of War 1*6, for the reason that, in such event, he would occupy the dual role of staff judge advocate and The Judge Advocate General, as he does when the President is the confirming authority, and would follow the procedure prescribed for the latter class of cases.
1*. The Board of Review summarizes the evidence in the accompanying opinion and holds that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence and*to warrant confirmation of the sentence. I have carefully examined the record and concur in such holding of the Board of Review. The evidence shows a clear case of murder. It remains for consideration whether there were mitigating circumstances
Gun} »L:LNi iaL
that would justify- commutation of the sentence. In ay opinion there were no mitigating circumstances but to the contrary the offense was aggravated by the conduct of accused. Displaying such a contemptuous defiance of authority, such a callous disregard for human life, his act shows a murderer at heart. . Seeing his victim fall lifeless, he showed no spark of remorse, but rather the heartless defiance and ghoulish pride of a coldblooded braggart. By its selection of the extreme penalty, the court indicates a like view of the accused and his crime. As much as one must always regret the need for the imposition of the death penalty, to commute the judgment of the court in this case I fear would seriously jeopordize discipline. That deceased was the officer of the day, engaged in the proper performance of his duty, and the accused-a member of the guard, is a factor that cannot be put aside. Accused's attempted excuse for his action is too weak to deserve consideration. "When all the evidence is considered this excuse fails lamentably. Accordingly I recommend that the sentence be confirmed and ordered executed.
5.	Without recommending such action it is my duty to point out to you that, in a case of this kind, you are authorized under the f>lst Article of War, to suspend the sentence until the pleasure of the President be known, in which event, the record of trial, together with a copy of your order of suspension, should be immediately transmitted to the President.
Tou may also, of course, commute the sentence, and, as thus commuted, confirm it and order its execution.	k
6.	Inclosed herewith are forms of action to accomplish any one of the foregoing alternatives, viz. -
a.	Confirming the sentence and ordering its execution.
b.	. Commuting the sentence, and as thus commuted,
confirming the same and ordering its execution.
c.	Suspending the sentence and forwarding it to the President for his action under the 5>lst Article of War.
Incls:
Record of trial.
Opinion of Board of Review. Forms of Action (3)
ck An
Brigadier General, U. S. AnA, Judge Advocate General, ) European Theater of Operations.
(Sentence confirmed and ordered executed. GCUO C, ETO, 1 Mar 1943)
255
#(219)
