#(391)
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1538
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
■	)
First Lieutenant CHESTER F. ) RHODES (0-909321),	Quarter-	)
master Depot Q-107,	Quarter-	)
master Corps.	)
12 APR 1944
EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
»
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Ipswich, Suffolk, England, 18-19, 24 January 1944* Sentence: Dismissal, total forfeitures- and confinement at hard labor for three years. Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates 1
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 94th ARTICLE CF WAR.
Specification 1:	In	that	First	Lieutenant	Chester
F.	Rhodes, Quartermaster Depot Q-107, o££iper* in charge of the Depot Sales Section (wholesale Post Exchange warehouse) at Quartermaster Depot Q-107, did, at Stowmarket, Suffolk, England, on or about 1 January 1943, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his own use approximately 19 cases of candy of the value'of about $1200., the property of the United States, furnished and intended for the military service thereof, intrusted to him, the said Lieutenant Rhodes by military authority; by selling the said goods and retaining the proceeds therefrom.
(392)
Specification 2:	In that *•* *, did, at Stowmarket,
Suffolk England, on or about 5 May 194-3, knowingly and willfully misappropriate 60 tin3 of peanuts and 4 "Zippo" lighters of the value of about $18.38, property of the United States, furnished and intended for the milita,ry service thereof by wrongfully exchanging them for three leather Air Corps jackets.
Specification 3* (Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification 4* • (Finding of Not Guilty).
CHARGE II:	Violation of the 95th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that First Lieutenant Chester F.
Rhodes, Quartermaster Depot Q-107, did, at Stowmarket, Suffolk, England, on or about 29 November 1943, with intent to deceive Lieutenant Colonel Joseph F. Hurley, Inspector General, Headquarters Eastern Base Section, officially state to the said Lieutenant Colonel Hurley that he did not receive any sum of money from Captain Horace J. Kimsey, AAF Station No. 595 for 19 boxes of damaged candy delivered by Lieutenant Rhodes to Captain Kimsey and that no candy was shipped to AAF Station 595 other than that which was shown on a tally out form, which statements were known by the said Lieutenant Rhodes to be untrue, in that Lieutenant Rhodes did receive approximately $1,136 from said Captain Kimsey for the sale of said candv at AAF Station 595 (approx. 19 boxes of candy) which was not shown on a tally form.
CHARGE III: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
(Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification 1: (Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification 2: (Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification 3: (Finding of Not Guilty).
ADDITIONAL CHARGE: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that First Lieutenant Chester F.
Rhodes, Quartermaster Depot Q-107, officer in charge of the Depot Sales Section (Wholesale Post Exchange Warehouse), at Quartermaster.
Depot Q-107, did, at Stowmarket, Suffolk, England, during the period from about 1 December 1942 to about 1 December 1943, wrongfully and without proper authority sell and permit to be sold post exchange merchandise from said Depot Sales Section, the property of the United States, furnished and intended for the military service thereof.
(393)
He pleaded not guilty-to all charges and specifications and was found guilty of Charge I; of Specification 1, Charge I, guilty, except the words "$1200" changed to read "$970", of the excepted words, not guilty, of the substituted words, guilty; of Specification 2, Charge I. guilty, except the words "four 'Zippo' lighters of the value of about $18,38", substituting therefor respectively the words "of the value of $15," of the excepted words, not guilty, of the substituted words, guilty; of Specifications 3 and 4-, Charge I, not guilty; of Charge II, guilty; of the Specification, Charge II, guilty, except the words "$1136," changed to "$970," of the excej>ted words, not guilty, of the substituted words, guilty; of Charge III and its specifications, not guilty; of the Additional Charge and its Specification, guilty. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed from the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due orto become due and to be confined at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for three years. The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer, Eastern Base Section, Services of Supply, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence; designat-ed~The Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven,
New York as the place of confinement and withheld the order directing execution-thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of bar 50%,
3*. The evidence for the prosecution was substantially as follows:
Mr, Maxwell Henry Gordon,, warehouse manager of "QM Depot 107"
(R16) who had served several terms, in English prisons for house-breaking, flat-breaking and receiving stolen property, all subsequent to the last war and prior to 16 years ago (H29,35-36) testified that he had been employed as civilian warehouse manager at the warehouse at Q-107 since 1 December 1942 and was still thus employed. The officer in charge was accused. The second in charge was Sergeant Ryan and witness was the third in charge. Gordon's duty was to supervise the incoming and outgoing merchandise, and the assembly and dispatch of orders. He was also responsible for the general care and upkeep of the warehouse. QM Depot 107 was a wholesale • warehouse supplying retail "PX" distribution* Merchandise consisted chiefly of cigarettes, tobacco, cigars, razor blades, chocolate, cookies, shaving material, all "PX" merchandise and a certain amount of nurses* items.
_ The method of operation of the warehouse was described by Gordon as follows:	Notification	in	the	shape of a "tally-out" form was received
from the bulk depot which furnished "Depot Q-107" its supplies of merchandise. The merchandise usually arrived within a day or two thereafter. A checker checked the merchandise as unloaded and witness verified its receipt into the warehouse (R16). When the shipment was completed, it was examined for pilferages, breakages-and damages which were noted on a "tally-in" form submitted to the office. Shortages were shown on an "OS & D" (over, short and damaged) form and a report of survey signed by the sales-store officer in charge of the "PX" warehouse was transmitted to the
-3
(394)	•
bulk depot; The merchandise was distributed to the retail sales stores in bulk according to the units' strength. ♦ Occasionally bulk was broken when distribution was for smaller units. To obtain merchandise, a retail sales store submitted a requisition to-"Depot Q-107*• The items were transferred in the office from the requisition to a worksheet which was sent to witness who supervised the assembly and packing of the items. The work- .* sheet then was. returned to the office from which a "tally-out" was prepared showing quantities of merchandise, the prices and total. A copy of the "tally-out" and a copy of the worksheet were delivered with the goods. No cash was ever involved in the normal operation of the distribution of merchandise (R17).
.	I
Accused and Ryan deviated from this established method of mer- • chandise withdrawals by making cash sales, the proceeds of which were kept in a cash box in the office. Ryan usually retained the key to it. Pros. Ex.5 was identified as two papersrepresenting the~cash which was in the box the amounts in which two persons received the cash from it. These papers w^re made out by Ryan in accused's presence and were shown to accused when Ryan was "going on pass and-he was going to take some money which was in the box as he thought he had not had enough" (R22). It was customary for both accused and Ryan to take ..money from the box and these two papers actually are a "statement of accountancy". (The prosecution then withdrew the exhibit without it having been admitted in evidence).	The-defense •
did not object (R23-24). Pros.Exs.l and 2 were identified as orders dated 1 March 1943 and 24 April 1943 signed ty accused. They informed all employees, both warehouse and office, that no sale could be made of any warehouse, goods unless a slip had been first procured from either accused or Ryan (R18-19). The only record of such case sales were the slip signed by accused or Ryan authorizing the sale and a record of the sale entered in & cash-sales book, also under the care of Ryan iR19). Pros.Ex.3 was identified as the cash sales book in question and was admitted in evidence (R19-20). Witness testified that-this book did not contain a record of all cash sales made from the warehouse. . To account for items sold for cash, they were listed on the "tally-out" of a sales store and the equivalent in cash was given to the store (R20). This method was authorized by accused and for such purpose two stores only were used:	the	retail Post Exchange
of Q-107 until the end of April (R20) and AAF 595 Post Exchange thereafter. The new "PX" officer of the retail Post Exchange of Q-107 rejected such procedure (R2l).
Coca Cola was an item charged into the warehouse at 3d a bottle and sold by direction of accused and Ryan for cash at 4& (R22),
On 12 December 1943 a large shipment valued about 120,000 arrived at the warehouse in bad condition. Many of the items, particularly chocolate or candy, were badly packed but they looked worse than they actually were. There was prepared a report of survey, which specified both damaged and undamaged merchandise. Included in the survey report were 19 wooden boxes of candy. At the direction of accused they were concealed
- 4 -
(395)
from the survey officers. The candy was vendible and undamaged. At the further direction of accused, these 19 boxes of candy were delivered to Captain Kimsey, "PZ" officer at the retail store at.AAF Station 595 (R25) and were not shown on a "tally-out" sheet (R43). It was shown nowhere on the records of the warehouse except in the report.of survey. "It was-sent to Captain Kimsey and the assumption was at that time that when all the stink had died down that he would return it, but he was afterwards, asked by Lieut. Rhodes to dispose of it in his PZ." Some weeks later towards .the end of January 194.3, Captain Kimsey brought a sum of money and in accused's office in the presence of witness paid it over to accused (R26). The 19 cases had a value of about 1300 (R43). ‘
About 5 Kay 1943, accused informed witness that Sergeant Zucco of the 91st Bombardment Group.was going to give him three leather Jackets and directed witness to prepare 60 cans of peanuts for delivery to Zucco.
There.were also four Zippo lighters to be given Zucco. Accused wore a leather jacket from that time up to December. Witness placed the value of the, lighters at 6s. 6d. each and the peanuts at a shilling a can, a total'of k4. 6s. 6d, Colonel Spray, depot commander of Q-107, Ryan and accused each received one of these jackets (B27).
On cross-examination witness testified* That he had seen accused, take money out of the cash box several times.and had also seen him take merchandise from the warehouse; that he was present when accused spoke to Captain Kimsey about the sorcalled damaged candy and was also present when payment of "a certain 3um of money" was made to accused by Captain Kimsey for approximately 1300 worth of candy sent to him. Captain Kimsey said to accused, "Here is the money for the candy* (R30).
Accused mentioned to witness that the compensation to Sergeant.
Zucco for the three "Air Corps jackets" would be by accused giving.him the
peanuts "and so forth".(R3l)... The four Zippo lighters were kept in the
office safe and witness did not see them (R33). No "tally-out" was made for these.items (R4l).
Witness unpacked and examined every case of damaged merchandise.
He was directed by accused "that a certain amount of merchandise should be put at the bottom of the warehouse on the left-hand side and be kept apart and not to be included in the stock and not to be included in the report of survey" (R33).
. Witness protested these various irregularities and informed Captain Israel, the new "PZ" officer at the retail store of Q-107 (R42),
Second Lieutenant Clarkson and Major Cable, Finance Officer, of conditions (R45). These various unauthorized issues of stock were shown as shortages on the stock records. On two occasions there were received "overages" of stock but the "overages" were not placed on the. stock record cards (R44).
Lieutenant Colonel Joseph F. Hurley, Inspector-General, Eastern Base Section testified in substance as follows* He had made an investigation of alleged irregularities at Q-107 for the period from 27 November-! "1943" (sic 1942) to 10 December 1943. During the investigation he had’
' rr C7i -5.
1538
(396)
interviewed accused at various times including 29 November, 9 December and 22 December. All statements made by accused were made voluntary, after due warning and without promise or duress and were taken under oath (R4S). Accused signed a statement taken on 29 November.
■ . On 9 December, accused, being questioned, stated that all merchandise marked "unfit for sale" included in the "OS & D" and Report of Survey amounting to approximately 134-0, had been all "shipped back to London". He denied that 19 boxes of merchandise were shipped to AAF Station 595. He denied that he asked Captain Kimsey to dispose of some of the merchandise that arrived at the warehouse from London in a damaged condition. He stated that it was regular stock but "terrible" candy they had at Christmas time. He denied that Gordon had shipped 19 boxes to AAF Station 595 on his orders and that it was sold by it or that any candy was shipped except on a "tally-out". He denied that Captain Kimsey handed . him about L300 in cash on or about that time or that he ever "received anything". He denied that any of the damaged goods were turned over to Captain Kimsey and asserted that Captain Kinsey received no undamaged goods except on "tally-outs". Accused understood that he gave these answers to witness while the latter was acting in his official capacity (R49). On 22 December, accused was again interviewed by Lieutenant Colonel Hurley. There were read to him parts of statements given by others which declared that accused did sell goods through Captain Kimsey at AAF Station 595 which were not shown on a "tally-out"j that he did receive approximately 1284- in payment and that he told Captain Kimsey he would turn the money over to the finance officer. Accused then admitted that Captain Kimsey "did turn over I would roughly say it was approximately L284 and that was going to be turned over to a finance officer. However, I put the money in a field desk until we got all that he claimed was damaged, straightened out. However, that was not the damaged candy from London and what happened to the L284. in that desk I do not know". He denied that this was candy on which a Report of Survey was made but stated that it was "additional candy that was not tallied in".. The statement made by the accused on 29 November was received in evidence as Pros.Ex.6 (R49&) and was read to the court (R50).	.
Sergeant George L. Zucco, 322nd Bombardment Squadron, 91st Bombardment Group, Station AAF 121 and Post Exchange steward, testified that some time in May 1943 both Ryan and accused had noticed his leather jacket and said they would give him 20 cans of peanuts for a jacket so he got two and brought them over to their office. Later they wanted one for a Colonel Spray. He received 60 cans of peanuts and three or four Zippo lighters in exchange for the jackets. They were government issue Air Corps jackets worth §3.12 each. No'"tally-out" was signed for the peanuts (R50-56),
Second Lieutenant James H. Clarkson, Jr., Quartermaster Corps, stationed at Q-107, testified that he knew that.Coca Cola sales at retail for cash were made in the wholesale warehouse at 4d. per bottle to both military and civilian personnel (R58).
- 6 —
(397)
Captain Theodore J. Israel, Quartermaster Corps, Depot Sales Officer. Quartermaster Depot Q-107, testified he had known accused who wan "PX" depot sales officer at the distribution warehouse at Quartermaster Depot 107, since January 1943* Witness was mess officer and retail "PX" officer, beginning 25 March and continuing until 1 December 1943. When he first became "PX" officer he found that accused and Ryan were selling merchandise "over the counter in the wholesale PX warehouse”. They would give him, for example, a tally-out for 1100, delivering 175 worth of merchandise and the balance.of the items represented by cash. The cash items would be listed at wholesale prices on the tally-out though in some cases retail and wholesale primes were the same. Witness complained of the practice and as far as he was involved, it ceased. There were 2400 bottles of Coca Cola issued each week and none of it was handled by the retail "PX".
Witness's retail exchange received the money for this Coca Cola on it3 "tally-out" sheet at 3d, the whole sale price per bottle and it was sold at the warehouse for 4d per bottle (R59-&4).
Captain Horace J. Kimsey, Air Corps,- AAF Station 595, Post Exchange officer and officers' mess officer at that station since September 1942, testified he secured post exchange supplies from Q-107 from the time it opened. In the early part of December 1942 he received a little less than A30Q worth of candy from accused. There were 15 to 20 boxes of the candy. He tried previously to secure extra merchandise for Christmas, Accused informed him that some candy was available. It was loaded on his truck and wa3 taken to his station. This was goqd candy except for a few bars broken in shipment. It was not placed on a "tally-out" but a list of it was given to him by accused and it was sold unrationed through hia "?X" and a separate record wa3 made ’of it. No receipt was asked of him nor given by him (R68). No record was made (R70) of the candy as it was excess over quota (R69). Sometime about the middle of January 1943 Captain Kimsey paid the proceeds of sale to accused in cash amounting to approximately L284 (R65). This wa3 the only instance in which he made a cash payment to xhe wholesale warehouse. No receipt was given to him’for the money (R68), Beginning in May 1943 he found item3 on his "tally-outs" which ‘he had not shown on his requisition 'and he was given the money instead of the items, at retail prices. It was done as an accommodation to accused. Goods were "tallied-out" at retail prices at which prices the witness in operation of his "PX" was accountable,	t
All moneys received by retail "PX" stores were deposited in a bank to credit of the Army Exchange Service except when purchases were made from independent merchants, such as breweries. Invoices for ‘such purchases were paid in cash or by check and the receipted invoices turned in in lieu of cash (R68).	■
4* Accused and Ryan were the only defense witnesses.
Accused testified in substance that; He was 37 years of age and had received a college education but had never been interested in accountancy or merchandising. He received his commission and was ordered.to active duty 23 June 1942 and sailed for England in July 1942. He was
- 7
(398)
assigned to the Amy Exchange (E72).	He was in London on a per diem for.
four months working with the Army Exchange (R73) before, coming to Q-107. Ryan, who knew the "PX" set-up and Gordon, a warehouse nan were detailed
as his assistants at Q-107 (R74).
% *
A shipment of damaged candy arrived at the warehouse. An "OS & Dn was made up and sent through followed by a-report of survey. Colonel Plank, commander of Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA. came to inspect the candy and suggested it be moved out of the ."broken room". He stated that an officer would check it and "then send it back to Q-110". Gordon took the responsibility of "tallying in" the shipment in its damaged condition. He informed witness he had salvaged enough of the good candy to cover the I033 in case the surveying officers did approve the loss. About that time accused* heard that an inventory was to be taken. "Not wanting to get into trouble" he informed Captain Kimsey that he could supply him with extra candy. Captain Kimsey agreed to take it. A list was made out and given to him for checking (R75). He did, "and the next thing I knew * * *-Captain Kimsey came back into the warehouse and he said, ’Dusty, here is the money for thatj I have a list made out according to the price and the total amount of each of the items'". Just then so accused asserted, he was called to the telephone and "happened to lay the .money in my field -desk"*	He was busy and a "couple of days passed and I could not figure
* out what had happened to the money". The slip Captain Kimsey had given him. had also disappeared. Time went on and he was "in hopes that something would happen that* would make a break or someone, would say, ’Here is
this money; what do you want done with this money*, but it never happened."
*
With respect to the Coca Cola transactions he testified that his warehouse received 24-00 bottles each week (76). The retail "PX" officer did not want to handle it and suggested it be sold at the wholesale warehouse; that the sales proceeds be paid to him and the merchandise put on his "tally-out". Later Captain Israel, came into the retail "PX" as "PX"
*	officer and refused to continue the practice. Coca Cola had been charged
on "tally-out" at retail but had been sold by the warehouse at 4d and 5d per bottle. Captain Israel wanted to know what accused was doing with the profit- and accused stated, "We are getting ready to paint the building; we have linoleum on the floor; we want some heaters as the men are complaining * * * and I am taking the half-penny that we make from that and buying those things from time to time. * * *. I have purchased radios and several gallons of ^enamel paint".	*
Later Colonel Spray wanted some cigars. His office was next to that of accused who secured them from the warehouse for him. That sale was the beginning of the accounts (R77).	*	'•
Accused testifled that Gordon wanted to resign but Colonel Plank and Colonel Hatch said “"he is right up to his neck, and I want you to make sure that that man does not get out of this depot." This was the latter part of November 1943*
- 8 -
(399)
Accused denied that he ever agreed to remunerate Zucco or anyone else for a leather jacket in any manner whatsoever or that he knew anything about the 60 tins of peanuts (R79). He wanted a jacket to wear because it was cold, in the warehouse (R80).
He explained the disposition of the 19 cases of candy by asserting it was not damaged but was. a full shipment "tallied in". "How the additional candy was covered I do not know except that Colonel Spray told me that he had happened to pee Mr. Gordon kick off a tin of biscuits over there and he said, .’I will bet you money the civilians are eating them in their little room for their tea'". He stated he was. confused by Colonel Hurley’s insistence that this was damaged candy and as there was no damaged candy, he denied having anything to do with it (R81-82),
.	■>	i—
He admitted starting the system at Q-107 of cash sales listed on some units "tally-out" with the difference paid, them in cash. He stated that "It was being done in London". He also admitted he made and allowed sales of merchandise from the Depot Sales Section "because the Colonel permitted it". On cross-examination he admitted that he knew of the cash sales book and also admitted that no record was kept of the "coke" sales as it "was a cash transaction", though a profit was produced (R83). He denied ever seeing the papers marked Pros.Ex.3, or that he withdrew sums of L35} A45j L17.13s. 3$d; L38. 2s. 6d., but stated that "there were some drawn to pay for the items" purchased for his depot. A radio cost 119 or 120 and the heaters 112 to 114 but he never withdrew as much as 135 or 145 at a time. Probably all the items purchased would amount to roughly 140, and the profits on the "coke" not much more than 130 or 135. He denied profiting personally from the sale of Coca Cola or that Ryan did to his knowledge (RS4).
He stated that the 19 cases of candy were not damaged and they were not covered in a report of survey. '"The candy was "tallied in" by-Gordon but that he did not know whether it was placed on the stock record. While it was his duty to see that it was placed on a "tally-out" he did not do so because Gordon had the list. The candy was not placed on Captain Kimsey's "tally-out" because he wanted to get it away from the inspecting officer, - "they were going to take an inventory of the whole warehouse and due to the fact'that Mr. Gordon had told me what he had done ■ I knew the answer would be that I would probably get skinned" (R85-86). Gordon had accumulated these 19 boxes of extra candy as a reserve to take care of the losses if the "OS & D" was turned down. He admitted Captain Kimsey paid him $970 which he declared he placed in his field desk.. He . ' missed it two days later. He did not report the loss because he was afraid of Colonel Spray (RS7). He intended to put the candy on some units "tally-out" but the slip containing the information had been lost. He also intended to pay the money himself directly to a finance officer in Honington whose name he did not know. When asked if that would not result in the unit on whose "tally-out" the candy waa charged-, being compelled to remit for it, he answered, "No, because there, are five copies of tally- -outs made and they would all get a copy". On being pressed for a definite answer to the question, accused stated, "The finance officers were ju3t
- 9 -
1538
Uoo)
merely people for depositing the money* and that there was no check on the "tally-outa" of that (AAF Station 595) "P4" unit. He never reported the loss of the money or mentioned it to anyone (R88-89,102).
On cross-examination he was interrogated as to the investigation conducted by Colonel Hurley. In particular he was asked if he di,d not state to Colonel Hurley:	.
■'Ho, sir, he did not; I don*t know anything about that1"
When Colonel Hurley propounded to him the following question:	.	.
"•Did or did not Capt. Kimsey hand you 300 odd pounds in cash on or about that time?*"
'	(R89),~	.
accused neither denied nor admitted that he gave the foregoing answer but / attempted an explanation by stating "that was when he was referring to the damaged candy* (R89). Insistently cross-examined as to why he had repeatedly given erroneous statements to Colonel Hurley during the investigation of his conduct and management of the wholesale depot Q-107, accused gave as his reason, that he became very confused at the time and "was all mixed up" (R90-91). He admitted taking .merchandise including roughly, a dozen pairs of silk hose, to London "possibly eight or ten times" during the year "to the procurement section of Quartermaster". He stated he was either paid for the articles" or brought them back but as he "did "not handle the sales book", he could not find the items listed there with records of cash sale's. "He stated a record was kept of these sales and they were put on the "tally-outs" of "Q-107; some on 595, probably". On being asked if he knew this as a fact, he answered, "Some were put on 107 I would roughly say*. He admitted delivering at one time to a Colonel Altoft 4.0 cartons of cigarettes and 144 bars" of candy; at another time 20 cartons of cigarettes and two boxe3 of cigars (R92-93)• He admitted receiving a jacket from Zucco but insisted that he gave nothing for it.
Sergeant Richard A. Ryan, QM Depot 107, a prisoner and a witness for the court, testified that he received a leather jacket from/Zucco; that he knew nothing of any trade for three jackets; that he gave Zucco nothing * and as far as he knew Zucco received nothing for them. He and accused made all cash sales. The money1 was placed in a cash box and the items entered in a cash sale book. At the end of the week they would all be put on some "tally-out" and the money paid to the sales officer of the "PX" which received the "tally-out". He denied knowing anything about the "large issue of candy to AAF 595". He did not give Zucco four lighters taken from the safe (R105).
Gordon was recalled by the court and re-affirmed his story of the delivery of the candy to Captain Kimsey at the direction of accused. He received these directions only eight days after he had commenced to work in the warehouse (R107).
- 10
(401)
5.	(a) On 25 October 1942, Headquarters ETOUSA Issued Circular #67 which in pertinent part provided:
"VII - SALES STORE SERVICE IN THE ETOUSA. la The Army Exchange Service is discontinued in this theater pursuant to instructions of the War Department (Cable S396, 26 September 1942). The Quartermaster Service.will provide sales store service and handle appropriate items including those listed in 0QJ3G Circular Letter No.330 (1942).
* * * *~* *
5.	The CG, SOS, ETOUSA, will establish sales stores in accordance with the needs of the Army in this theater and as personnel and facilities become available. * * *.
6.	******
b. Supplies of sales items will be obtained by requisition on QMC Form 400. * * *.
******
<|, Sales officers of organizations will account for all supplies received at the cost, price, which is also the sales price shown on •Tally Outs' issued to them by the depot. Deposit of funds will be made to nearest finance . . officer asfrequently as practicable * * *
accompanied by Report of Sales, QMC Form 389,
* * *.
e. For audit purposes the sales officer will maintain an account consisting of all 'Tally Outs', QMC Form 490, furnished with all supplies received by him, * *
f	,	_
(b)	On 25 October 1942 a Memorandum addressed to all Post Exchange officers was issued by Headquarters, European Theater of Operations (signed by the Quartermaster) directing that all merchandise be mentioned and the inventory be priced and computed and be forwarded to Headquarters.
(c)	Circular No. 55, 27 November 1942, Headquarters Service of Supply, European Theater of Operations, contained the following relevant orders and directions:
«	OPERATION OF SALES STORE SERVICE.
1. ***** *
2. DEFINITIONS: To facilitate an understanding of these instructions, the following terms used herein, are defined:
******
Distribution Depot: That portion of a Quartermaster section of a general depot or of a Quartermaster depot which is established for
- 11 -
153 8
(402)
the purpose of issuing salefe-store supplies to organizations (formerly referred to as a breakdown depot).
******
3. ******
b. Sales Store Distribution Depots. As 30on . as personnel and supplies will permit, distributing sections for sales-store items will be established at each depot normally carrying Quartermaster Class I supplies. Distribution depots will be assigned by the Chief Quartermaster SOS to a bulk depot, which will furnish required sales-store supplies. * * *.	.
(1)	Requisitions will be submitted on QMS Form 400 in duplicate.
(2)	******.
(3)	Method of distribution to sales offleers.-Sales officers will submit requisitions (in duplicate) to distribution depots,
1 where they will be edited for conformity with authorized allowances in accordance with Section VII Circular No. 67, Hq. ETOUSA, 25 Oct.1942, and such other instructions as may be issued. Upon approval of requisitions, supplies required will be issued to the sales officer on a tally • . out, indicating quantity, unit, description of article, unit price, and total price. This tally out will serve as a*price list for resale operations. The prices stipulated on the tally out will.be identical to the prices shown on the price list issued periodically by the Chief Quartermaster SOS.
(4)	******.
(5)	The following records are required:
Requisition	-	QMC Form 400
Tally In	-	QMC Form 489
Tally Out .. - QMC Form 490 (to be prepared in triplicate). ****** *,
Stock Record Card -****.
Bin or Stack Card, * * * *.
Inventory -**♦***.
Register of Debit and Credit Vouchers to Stock Account -****.
“ 4. * * * * * *.
c.	Tally Out Forms. The tally out form furnished the sales officer by the distribution depot will be used as a price list for the articles received, and likewise as a receipt voucher. The prices
..-12 -
(403)
stipulated on tally out.will be the prices shown on the price list issued by the Chief Quartermaster, SOS. These prices will be adhered to in making saleB.
***** *#n
(d)	Circular No. 29, 23 April 1943, Headquarters Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations, as amended by Circular No. 43, 22 August 1943 rescinded Circular No. 55, 27 November 1942 and directed that except insofar as pertains to operations by the Quartermaster Corps of Special Sales Stores and Mobile Sales Units for the sale of officers1 uniforms, accessories and other clothing, unit Sales Store Officers will close their accounts with the Chief Finance Officer, SOS, ETOtFSA, as of the close of business on 30 April 1943*
(e)	General Orders No.16, 21_March 1943, Headquarters European Theater of Operations, designated the Services of Supply as the Commanding General’s agency for administrative service and supply of the theater and placed the Arny Exchange Service under the supervision, control and direction of the Commanding General, Services 6f Supply, European Theater of Operations.
(f)	AR 210-65 provides*
"(a) The Army Exchange Service is that part of the Army which has jurisdiction over' and' provides staff' supervision of the operation of all Army exchanges, and consists of 3uch officers, enlisted men, and civilian personnel necessary to perform the functions assigned to it.
(b) This Service will have jurisdiction over,, and will be extended to, all exchanges of the kray through appropriate personnel on the staffs of commanding generals of service commands and commanding officers of posts, camps, stations, and installations, at whose directions exchanges have been established.n (AR 210-65, par.11, p.8).	*
J
(g)	Relevant provisions of AR 35-6520 arex	i
"1, Accountability and responsibility for public property defined,- a. Accountability and re-•	sponsibility	devolve	upon any person to whom
public property is intrusted and who is required to maintain a property account thereof.
(l) An officer who carries property on a stock record account and has such property in his possession, either in use on in storage, has 'accountability' and 'responsibility'' for
- 13 -
1538
the care and safekeeping of such property.
Ee has 'accountability,’ but not ’responsibility, ’ for property which he has issued to others on memorandum receipt. The accountable officer continues to carry on ’ his stock record account the property issued to others on’ memorandum receipt.
(2) An officer who ’has given a memorandum re'ceipt for property will not take such property up on a stock record account, and is not ’accountable’ therefor,- but he becomes ’responsible’ for its care and preservation and will not be relieved of such responsibility until he has returned the property to the accountable officer or secured memorandum receipt from a successor, or until hs has ’ otherwise been relieved by the operation of regulations or orders.
******
***** *.
g. The sale,' gift, loan, exchange, or other disposition of any Government property not specifically authorized by law, regulations, or orders is illegal.
******,
13.	Responsibility for property in stock.- a.
Property officers will be primarily responsible for the care and safekeeping of the property and supplies under their control, but this provision* will not operate to relieve commanding officers of the joint responsibility prescribed in paragraph 18.
******,
The court was authorized to take judicial notice of the above cited General Orders and Circulars of Headquarters European Theater of Operations; similar Orders and Circulars of the Services of Supply, and of the Army Regulations (1EM, 1928, par.125, p.135; CM ETO 952, Mpsser). ' The Board of Review may likewise take judicial notice of same upon appellate review (Caha v'. United States, 152 U.S. 211,222, 38 L.Ed. 415,419; Thornton v. United States, 271 U.S. 414,420, 70 L.Ed. 1013,1017).	1
6.	From the foregoing data it i3 manifest that the method of operation of the post exchanges within the European Theater of Operations has from time to time undergone a"process of adjustment and change which is of vital importance in determining the responsibility of accused in the instant case. The operations properly classified show*
(a) From an indefinite past date commencing with arrival of military personnel of the United States within the United Kingdom to 25' October 1942, the post exchanges within the theater were operated in the usual and
- 14 -
(405)
customary manner and method as provided in AR 210-65. Centralized control and direction appears to have been absent, or at least minimized.
(b)	From 25 October 1942 to 30 April 1943 the post exchanges were the sales-stores of the Quartermaster and it was part of his duties and functions to supervise, direct and control the procurement and distribution of all merchandise sold at retail through and b^- the retail post exchanges.
(c)	On 1 May 1943 the post exchanges were removed from the control and direction of the Quartermaster and were placed under the jurisdiction of the Army Exchange Service. The Arny Exchange Service has been since said date under the supervision, control and direction of the Commanding General, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations,
7.	Post-exchanges operatingi as individual units under AR 210-65, or as subordinate outlets of retail distribution of the Army Exchange Service are instrumentalities of the United States, and are in all respects subject to military control and direction.
"On July 25, 1895, the Secretary of War, under authority of Congressional enactments promulgated regulations providing for the establishment of post exchanges. These regulations have since been amended from time to time and the exchange has become a regular feature of ,	Army	posts. That the establishment and con-
trol of post exchanges have been in accordance with regulations rather than specific statutory directions does hot alter their status, for authorized War Department regulations have the _ force of law.^
******
The commanding officer of an Army Post, subject to the'regulations and the commands of his own superior officers, has complete authority to establish and maintain an exchange. He details a post exchange officer to manage its affairs. This officer and the commanding officers of the various company units make up a'council which'supervises exchange activities.
None of these officers receives any compensation other than his regular salary. The object of the exchanges is to provide convenient and reliable sources where soldiers can obtain their ordinary needs at the lowest possible prices. Soldiers, their families, and civilians employed-on military posts here and abroad can buy at exchanges. The government assumes none of the financial obligations of the exchange. But government officers, under government regulations, handle and are responsible for ail funds of the exchange which are obtained '
15 -
1538
(406)
from the companies or detachments composing its membership* Profits, if any, do not go to individuals* They»are used to improve the soldiers’ mess, to provide various types of recreation, and in general to add to the pleasure and comfort of the troops.
From all of this, we conclude that post exchanges as now operated are arms of the government deemed by it essential for the performance of governmental functions.M (Standard Oil Company v. Johnson, 316 U.S. 481,483-485; 86"
L.Ed. 1611,1615-1616).
However, in their ownership of property and in contractual relations with others in the acquisition and sale of same, the Army Exchange Service and the retail post-exchanges are privately owned and operated* Their property is not the property of the United States but is held in trust fop the benefit of the military personnel.
" A post exchange is an association of military" organizations stationed at the post at which the exchange is maintained. The .Amy Regulations (210-65) provide that its operation is conducted by an exchange officer detailed by and under the commanding officer of the post and subject to the recommendations of the exchange council. The buildings in which-exchanges are conducted are constructed, equipped, and maintained from public funds appropriated for the purpose, but the expenses of fitting up the buildings for exchange use and of the goods sold by the exchange are defrayed from the funds of the exchange, which are received from the various organizations belonging to the exchange and from the receipts of sales of goods. The Army Regulations pro- _	,
vide that the commanding officer of the post is responsible for the conduct and .operation of the post exchange and under him the exchange officer is. in charge of and responsible for its management in accordance with the regula-. tions. ' The post exchange is not established under specifio statutory authority, but is maintained under special regulations prescribed by the .War Department. It is recognized as a Government instrumentality or agency for certain purposes but indebtedness of a soldier to such exchange is not an indebtedness to the Government, See 25 Comp. Deo.960, which decision held that the property of an exchange, is not property belonging to the United States." (9 Comp.Gen. pp.353-354).
16
(407)
n Army Regulations 210-65, 75(e) define a post exchange as a ’voluntary unincorporated cooperative association of Army organizations ’ whose rights and liabilities are measured by the law’ of partnership.* In Kenny v. United States (1926), 62 Ct.Cls.328,337, the United States Court of Claims held that money which was the property of an Army post exchange was not property of the Government. ’ That court has held, also, in the case of Taggart v. United ’ States. 17 Ct.Cls.322, that no public officer can make the Government either agent or trustee for the collection of private debts." (11 Comp. Gen. p»l6l)»
"The debts of Army exchanges * * * are not obligations of the Government and are in no respect guaranteed by the Government. * * *. SPJGC 1943/9895, 3 July 1943" (Bull.JAG'. July * 1943, Tol.II, No.7, AR 210-65, par.8, p.294).
"An Army exchange had accumulated a certain amount of profit, but the personnel of a participating organization had been completely destroyed or captured by the enemy. With entirely new personnel, the organization was redesignated under a'modified name. Heidi In the absence of specific regulations, the Chief of Army Exchange Service may establish the policy for disposition of such exchange profits by analogy to the established War department policy for disbanded organizations (AR 210-65, par.144 (6)), Accordingly, in cases like the present one, he"may fix the policy to set t aside such exchange profits for disposition according to recommendation of the exchange' council and approval of the commanding officer. SPJGC 1943/4165, May 1, 1943." (Bull.JAG, Bay 1943, Vol.II, No.5, AR 210-65, par.8, p;226).
" Contracts between post exchanges'and their’ suppliers are net subject to renegotiation under sec.403, Sixth Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act, 1942, as amended by sec.801, Revenue Act of 1942, because post exchange contracts are not Government contracts. SPJGC 1943/2731, Feb.20, 1943." (Bull.JAG,
March 1943, Vol.II, No.3, AR 210-65, par.33, p.127).
153S
- 17
(408)
" A truck belonging to a post exchange was damaged due to the negligence of the operator of a bus owned by a private concern.
Helds The resulting cbntroversy-should be settled or litigated between'the post exchange and the bus company as between private business firms. Post exchange property is not Government property and no action may be taken under AR 35-7220, June 6, 1942. SPJGD 1942/5486, Nov.20, 1942." (Bull.JAG, November 1942, Vol.I, N0.6, AR 210-65, par.7, p.35l).
" Property of a’post exchange, however; is ' not owned by the United States Government.
A post exchange is a legal entity capable of owning property in its own name (Kyle v. U.S.,
46 Ct.C1.197; 9 Comp.Gen. 353; SPJGC 552.02,
,	July	23,	1942).	It	purchases	upon its own
credit and'hot with appropriated funds."
****** -
Army Exchange Service property is of a similar character.
******
SPJGC 400.8, August- 23, 1942." (Bull.JAG,
August 1942, Vol.I, 'No.3, AR 210-65, par;
9a(20), p.199).
■ The above rule concerning the non-governmental nature of post exchange property is true notwithstanding the fact that the Army exchange funds are "public funds" within the purview of Act of 11 June 1942 (56 Stat. 356;
12 U.S.C. 265) which authorized national banks to pledge assets as security for deposit of such funds’in accordance with Treasury Regulations (SPJGC 1943/7920, 15 June 1943, Bull.JAG, Sep 1943, Vol.H; Noi9, sec.1707a, p.360). This conclusion resulted upon enactment of the foregoing statute. Prior to such statutory declaration the exchange funds were private funds not "public moneys" under R.S.5153 and were not entitled to the pledge of securities by bank depositories (SPJGC 123, Kay H, 1942, Bull.JAG, Jan-June 1942, Vol.I, No.l, sec.1708, p.62).‘	"
8.	The evidence is conclusive that Quartermaster Depot Q-1G7 located at Stowmarket, Suffolk, England, Was between 25 October 1942 and 30 April 1943 a distributing depot within the purview of Circular No.55, 27 November 1942, Services of Supply, ETOUSA. Its functiori was to receive bulk merchandise from the Quartermaster and effect distribution of same to the retail sales stores (post exchanges). Beyond all doubt the merchandise * handled and distributed was property‘of the United States until title passed to the retail.consumers.	During this‘period of time the Government of the
United States, acting through the intermediary of the Army, was in the business of supplying the "ordinary needs" of the military personnel in the theater.	*
- 18
Accused was the officer in charge of distributing,depot Q-107.
By his own testimony he admitted that he was the manager and operator of said depot for the Government at the times and on the occasions alleged in the specifications. Upon assuming said post and continuously thereafter until relieved from duty there was imposed upon him the responsibility of complying with all rules and regulations issued or promulgated by-higher authority for the management of said depot; the keeping of prescribed books and records of account; the safe warehousing and storing of all property intrusted to his care; the disposing of same only as authorized and directed by superior authority and finally of accounting truthfully and faithfully for all property placed under his care or control (AR, 35-6520, supra).
In the recent case of CM ETO 1302, Splain the Board of Review (sitting in ET0US4) had occasion to consider the crime of embezzlement under the 93rd Article of War. In its holding it reviewed at length numerous relevant opinions of the Federal courts and the holdings of the Board of Review (sitting in Washington) and The Judge Advocate General with respect to the particular crime of embezzlement denounced in said Article of War*
It was concluded that Congress had, in enacting said Article, eliminated the bothersome and vexing question as to the difference between "possession” and "custody" and had adopted the modern rule announced in Moore v. United States. 160 U.S, 268,269,270, 40 L.Ed. 422,424- as follows:
"Embezzlement is the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom such property has been intrusted or into whose hands it has lawfully come. It differs from larceny in •	>	the	fact that the original taking of the prop-
erty was lawful or with the consent of the - . \	owner,	while in larceny the felonious intent
must have existed at the time of taking."
1
The 94th Article of War provides in pertinent part:
"Any person subject to military law who * * * steals, embezzles, * * * any ordnance, arms, equipments, ammunition, clothing, subsistence stores, money, or other property of the United States furnished or intended for the military service thereof; * * *; Shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by fine or imprisonment, or by such other punishment as a court-martial may adjudge, or by any or all of said penalties. ** *."
Congress in the 94th Article of War, denounced a crime which it designated as "embezzlement" without attempting to define it. The Board of Review (sitting in Washington) in CM 197396, Christopher. CM 211810, Houston and CM 211900, Edwards construed the meaning of the word "embezzlement" in said Article. Reference is made to the recently decided Spjajn
(uo)	•
case, supra, for a discussion of said opinions. The conclusion is irrefragable, however, that the elements of the crimes denounced by the 93rd and 94th Articles - "embezzlement" - are identical except that the property involved in a charge under the 94th Article must be Government property (CM 198485, Wood. Dig.Op.JAG, 1912-1940, sec.452(3)* p.335). The Board of Review (sitting in ETOUSA) therefore concludes that the rule announced in the Snlain case as to the crime of "embezzlement" under the 93rd Article is equally applicable to the same offense under the 94th Article.	>
9,	Accused is charged with embezzling 19 boxes of candy (Specification 1, Charge I) which was the property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof. Physically the candy was delivered into the depot over which accused exercised the superior management, control and direction. It thus-, came under his care and control lawfully and in the usual and ordinary course of business. He had knowledge of its presence in the' warehouse and expressly directed its handling and disposition. Under these facts it cannot be denied that the proof is substantial that the 19 boxes of candy were intrusted to accused’s care and custody within the principles of the Snlain case. He was responsible for its safe-keeping and ultimate disposal. He occupied towards the United States a position of trust. . Therefore, the first element of the Government’s proof was fully sustained.
The 19 boxes of candy arrived at distributing depot Q-107, on or about 12 December 1942. As hereinbefore demonstrated, between 25 October 1942 and 30 April 1943 the retail sales store operations of the theater were functions of the Quartermaster and "post-exchanges" as conceived under AR 210-65 technically did not exist. The entire process of procurement and. distribution of merchandise intended for the "ordinary.needs" of the military personnel during this period was a direct operation of the Government. The testimony of both Captain Kimsey (R67) and accused (R73-74) recognized this status of the depot and the retail stores at the time of^ the candy transaction. The evidence of the methods of operation of depot Q-107 fully sustains this conclusion. In fact no other conclusion is permissible.
The reasonable and in fact the only legitimate inference to be drawn from the evidence in the record and the orders and circulars pertaining to. the operation of the retail sales stores during the period commencing on 25 October 1942 and•terminating on 30 April 1943 is that the merchandise distributed through the depots and retail stores was property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof.
” Although there may be no direct evidence that the property was at the time of the alleged offense property of the United States furnished or intended for the military service thereof, still circumstantial evidence such as evidence that the property was of a type and kind furnished or intended for, or issued for use in, the military service might to-
— 20..*... •
CUD
gether with other proved circumstancea warrant the court in inferring that it was the property - of the United States, so furnished or intended."
(MCM, 1928, par.150 i,p.185).
The findings of the court that the 19 boxes of candy were Government property furnished and intended for the military use thereof is sustained by the evidence. The burden of proving the second element of prosecution’s case was met.
The Specification alleges that the embezzlement of 19 boxes of candy was committed "by selling the said goods and retaining the proceeds therefrom". Under this allegation there would have been a fatal variance if the proof showed that accused sold the candy in a legitimate, authorized manner and converted the proceeds of sale (CM 185034 (1929); CM 188571 (1929), 189471 (1930), Dig.0p.JAG, sec.45l(20), pp.317-318; CM 218647 (1942), CM 220061.(1943), Bull.JAG, Jan-June 1942, Vol.I, No.l, sec.45l('20), p.21; 20 C.J., sec.73» p.479, footnote 99). ' Such is not the situation in the instant case. The candy was included in the survey report. Accused deliberately directed that it be concealed from the survey officers and through' subterfuge misled them, as to the identity of the property subject to survey. Consequential upon these operations accused came into control of 19 boxes of merchantable candy which had been condemned as salvage.• Thereafter, under accused’s direction they were delivered to Captain Kimsey without recording the disposition of same as required by pars. 3£(3) and 4£ of Circular No.55,
27 November 1942 Headquarters Service of Supply ETCUS&. The listing of the 19 boxes of candy on-the survey report as damaged property when in fact it was vendible merchandise,its coincident.concealment from the survey officers and the procurement of the report which eliminated the candy from stock account when taken together, effectually segregated the candy from the warehouse stock and thereby deprived the Government of its use. By such irreg- ' ular and clandestine operation accused assumed personal dominion over the property, and an unlawful conversion of the property by him resulted regardless of his receipt from Captain Kimsey of its proceeds of sale (20 C.J., sec.16, p.426).	Accused’s conduct with respect to the candy was fraudulent
and deceitful and bespeaks the necessary felonious intent to sustain the charge (29 C.J.S., sec.43, p.742).
It is alleged that accused committed the offense on or about 1 January 1943. The evidence shows that accused converted the candy sometime after 12 December 1942 and before Christmas 1942. However, it was not necessary to prove that the offense was committed at the precise time laid in the Specification and evidence may be given referring to any other day before the preferring of charges and within the period of limitations (Tvler,v: United States. 106 Fed.137; 20 C;J., sec.77, p.48l).
* The phrase contained in the Specification "by selling the said goods and retaining the proceeds therefrom" is surplusage. The offense of embezzlement was sufficiently alleged without the inclusion of the mentioned phrase. *No proof of the same was required in order to sustain the charge (Grin v. Shine 187 U.S.18l-lg9,195, 47 L.Ed. 130,136,138; Jewett v. United. States 100 Fed.832,837; CM/7&4, Copeland and Huggleg; CM ETO 895, Davis et al).
858071
1538
U12)	‘
‘ The Board of Review is of the opinion that there is competent substantial evidence in the record of trial to support the*finding cf accused's guilt of Specification 1, Charge I*
10.	By Specification 2, Charge I it is alleged that on or about 5 May 194-3 accused did "knowingly and willfully misappropriate 60 tins of peanuts and 4 'Zippo' lighters of the value of $18*38', property of the United States, furnished and intended for the military service thereof by wrongfully exchanging them for three leather Air Corps jackets." The court by substitution found that he misappropriated 60 tins of peanuts only valuadat $15.00, The evidence is uncontradicted that accused caused to be delivered to Zucco 60 tins of peanuts in exchange for three leather Air Corps Jackets and that said exchange occurred on or about 5 May 1943.
The Specification is laid under that part of the 94th Article of War which provides!
i
"Who steals, embezzles, knowingly and will-	•	’•
fully misappropriates * * * any ordnance, arms, equipments, ammunition, clothing, subsistence stores, money, or other property of the United States furnished or intended for the military service thereof; * *
Circular No. 29, 23 April 1943, Headquarters, Services of Supply, ET0USA as amended by Circular No. 48, 22 August 1943 rescinded Circular No,55, 27 November 1942 and directed that with exceptions not here relevant Unit Sales Stores officers will close their accounts with the Chief Finance Officer, SOS, ETOUSA at close of business 30 April 1943. General Orders No, 16, 21 March 1943* Headquarters European Theater ‘of Operations placed the Army Exchange Service under the supervision, control and direction of the Commanding General, Services of Supply, ETOUSA.
• •	It is apparent from the foregoing that at close of business on 30
April 1943, the Theater Quartermaster ceased his operations of the retail sales stores and the inference' is reasonable that the Army Exchange Service succeeded to all operations of such nature theretofore conducted by the' Quartermaster. On 1 May 1943 post-exchanges, as contemplated by AR 210-65 again came-into existence in the theater. The record of trial is silent as to the disposition of the assets and property which were on hand in the distributing depots and in the retail sales stores at close of business on 30 April 1943, The directions of Circular No. 29, 23 Apr 1943 (SOS, ETOUSA) and General,Orders No, 16,'21 March 1943 (ETOUSA) support, the inference that title to such property was vested in the Army Exchange Service and the Post Exchanges, Reason and practical common sense dictate this conclusion. It cannot be supposed that the Army Exchange Service and its subsidiary Post Exchanges would be activated on 1 May 1943 without vesting in them ownership and control of the stocks of merchandise which were in their possession. Neither does it comport with reason or common sense to assume that the merchandise in the distributing depots and post exchanges continued to be owned by the United States although the post-exchange officers
- 22
(413)
I
were directed to close their accounts with the Chief Finance Officer. This fact alone is almost conclusive proof that title to the stocks of merchandise passed from the United States to the Army Exchange Service and the exchanges at close of business 30 April 1943. As long as the distributing depots and retail sales stores were Government owned and operated it was not only proper but also mandatory that cash funds accruing to the retail store officers be deposited with the Chief Finance Officer to be covered into the Federal Treasury,_ Those funds were property of the United States. After 1 May 1943 the post exchange officers were prohibited from making such disposition of their funds. Obviously these funds could only arise from sale of merchandise in their possession oh 1 May 1943/and replenishments thereof.) The plain inference is that since the funds were not property of the United States, the source of the funds was also not property of the , . United States.
. The prosecution had the duty of.proving each principal element of the offense charged beyond a reasonable doubt (Davis v. United States. 160 U.S. 469, 40 L,Ed.,.499j MCM, 1928, par.78a, pp.62-63). -It was therefore its duty to present evidence that the tins of peanuts and lighters were Government property on 5 May 1943. The record in the instant case is silent as to proof of this fact and in view of the change in status of post exchange operations at close of business on 30 April 1943 as evidenced by the Circulars and Order above set forth, the failure of proof in this respect cannot be ignored.
The 94th Article of War denounces as a crime the act of willfully and knowingly misappropriating Government property "furnished or intended for the military service". Congress thereby intended to provide special v treatment for (a) Government property which was (b) furnished or intended for the military service.
"The larceny, embezzlement, etc., must be of the particular kind of property.mentioned in the article (Article 94). Post exchange and company funds and money appropriated for other than the military service do not com* within the description 'money of the United States furnished or intended for the military service thereof.1" (MCM, 1921, par.444 (IX), p.457).
"Accused was convicted of the larceny of United States Motion Picture coupon books,
'property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof,'
’ in violation of A.W.9A. Held. That funds accruing from the exhibition of motion pictures are not public funds although, the United States has custody thereof.. Consequently they are not monies 'furnished and intended for the military service' and that part of
:.T07i	-23-
(414)
the finding should be disapproved. The offense is a violation of A.W.93 and not of A.W.94. C.M.199737 (1932)'*. (Dig.Op.JAG,
1912-1940, sec.452(8), p.337).
"An accused was found, guilty of larceny of *
Government property under A.W.93. The reviewing authority approved only so much of the findings as involved a finding of guilty of larceny in violation of A.W. 94« Held.
That the action of the reviewing authority was equivalent to disapproval of the finding of guilty of larceny in violation of A.W.93, and an attempt to substitute therefor and approve a finding of guilty of larceny of property of the United States, furnished and intended for the military service, in violation of A.W.94. Held further. That such substitution was ion-authorized since larceny of property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service, in violation of A.W.94, is an offense containing elements which are not included in the offense of simple larceny denounced by A.W.93, and that the offense attempted to be substituted was not, therefore, lesser than and included within that charged. C.M.186919 (1929)." (Dig.Op.JAG, 1912-1940, sec.451 (43), p.327).
See also to same effect C.M.191809 (1930), (Dig.Op.JAG, 1912-1940, sec.45l(43), p.327). (Cfx United States v. Mason. 218 U.S. 517, 54 L.Ed., 1133; Price v. United States. 7A Fed(2nd) 120, Cert.denied 294 U.S. 720,
79 L.Ed., 1252; Rehearing denied 295 U.S. 767, 79 L.Ed., 1708).
f
Not only is there no affirmative evidence that the peanuts were Government property on 5 May 1943, tut also the status of the post-exchanges and the.Army Exchange Service in the European Theater of Operations on said date, was of such nature as to support the inference that such property was privately owned by the Army Exchange Service. Under such condition of the record it is manifest that the prosecution failed to prove a vital element of the offense charged, to-wit: that the property misappropriated by accused was Government property.
In a charge of embezzlement under the 93rd Article of War It makes "no difference in whom the title to the property rests? provided it is not in accused" (CM ETO 1302, Splaln).	Oppositely, in a charge of embezzlement
of Government property under the 94th Article of War, proof of ownership of the property in the United States is one of the vital elements of the offense and failure of proof of same is fatal to the prosecution's case.
24
(U5)
The record is therefore legally insufficient to support the finding of guilty of Specification 2, Charge I,
.	11.	On 9 December 1913 Lieutenant Colonel John F. Hurley, Inspector
General, Eascern base Section, Services of Supply, ETOUSA in the course of an official investigation interrogated accused with respect to suspected irregular conduct in the, operations at distributing depot Q-107. Accused clearly understood that he was interviewed by Colonel Hurley in an official capacity and the purpose of the investigation. In the course of the interview the following colloquy occurred:'
1
••Question: It has been testified that 19 boxes of merchandise were shipped to AAF Station 595. Is this a fact or not a fact?
Answer:	It	is not a fact, not that I know of.
******
Question:
Answer:
Question:
Answer:
Question:
Answer:
Question:
Answer:
Question:
Answer:
Mr. Gordon testified that he shipped 19 boxes to AAF Station 595 on your orders and that this candy was sold by them. Is that a fact, or not a fact?
No, sir, that is not a fact. There was no candy shipped other than that what was on tally out.
Did or did not Captain Kimsey hand you three hundred-odd pounds in cash on or about that time?
No, sir, he did not. I don’t know anything about that.
It has been testified that Sergeant .Ryan knew that you received three hundred off (sic) pounds in_cash. Did you or did you not receive three . hundred odd pounds in cash?
No, sir, I never received anything. Were any of those goods turned over to Captain Kimsey?
No, sir, none of those damaged goods were turned over to Captain Kimsey.
Was any of the undamaged goods in that shipment turned over to Captain Kimsey?
Only on a tally out.n (R19).
1
At a subsequent interrogation by Colonel Hurley on 22 December 19-43 accused changed his statement and in substance admitted that 19 boxes of candy had been delivered to Captain Kimsey without registering same upon a "tally out"• and that he had received from Captain Kimsey approximately 1284 representing the proceeds of sale of the 19 boxes of candy. The evidence is conclusive that accused made the two statements alleged in the Specification of Charge II in the course of an official investigation. It is also clear
o r n
» «• i
G71
(416)
that they were false In every respect and that accused knew they were untrue when he made them. The only possible inference is that he made them knowingly and willfully with the intent that they should deceive Colonel Hurley.
Upon cross-examination* when faced with the realities of the situation, he attempted to distinguish between "damaged” and "undamaged" candy, and asserted he was confused at the time he replied to Colonel Hurley’s questions. Accused's responses upon cross-examination were of such conflicting and illogical nature as to justify the court in placing . small credence in his defense. At the most his distinction- between "damaged" and "undamaged" candy was a mere parrying of words' which fell far short of a bona-fide explanation of an honest misunderstanding of the import of questions to which he made false answers.
Although accused is charged with conduct unbecoming an officer, and a gentleman in violation of the 95th Article of War, the principle announced in United States v. Norris 300 U.S. 564,573-574,576, 81 L.Ed., 803,813,814. is applicable. By analogy, accused’s recantation of his false statement at a subsequent interrogation is no defense (CM ETO 1447, Scholbe:
CM NATO 154 (1943), Bdll.JAG, Jan 1944, Vol.III, No.l, sec.45l(53), p.13).
The making of false statements by an officer in the course of an official investigation is an offense under the 95th Article of War (Winthrop’s Military law & Precedents - Reprint - p.713; CM 153703, Manchester. Dig.Op. JAG, 1912-1940, sec.453(18), p.345; MCM, 1-928, par.151, p,186).
The record is legally sufficient to support the findings of accused’s guilt of Charge II and its Specification.	•	‘
12.	Distributing Depot Q-107-as has been shown was an instrumentality of the Theater Quartermaster between 25 October 1942 and 30 April 1943«
Its operations were governed by the directions and orders contained in Circular No. 55, 27 November.1942, Headquarters, Services of Supply, ETOUSA. Gordon’s testimony as to the methods of operations of the warehouse, corroborated in certain respects by accused’s own statements, is highly convincing that the operations between the dates above stated were based upon the instructions contained in the circular.- There' is therefore substantial evidence in the record which permitted the court to find that accused had actual knowledge of the contents of: the circular, which manifestly governed and limited his authority as warehouse manager. The question of accused’s knowledge of the contents of the circular wa3 one of-fact for the court and its finding, being supported by substantial evidence will not be disturbed by the Board of Review (Bovett v. United States. 48 Fed(2nd) (5th Cir.) 482;
16 C.J., sec.2279, p.924-71In view of the evidence in this.case imputing knowledge to accused of contents of the circular it is not necessary to consider the binding effect of the instructions upon him in the absence of proof of actual knowledge.	*	.	,
The function of distributing depot Q-107 was to receive merchandise in bulk and distribute the same in smaller lots to the retail sales stores upon their requisite ns. Its accounting process was comparatively simple
- 26
(-417)
due to the restricted field of its operations. Circular No. 55 contained no authorization for it to sell at retail to consumers, but oppositely it negatived such-authority. While there was no specific prohibition of retail sales, a most casual reading of the circular makes it obvious that such sales were opposed to the purpose of the distributing depot. The prohibition is directly implied (59 C.J., sec.632, pp.1075-1076, footnote 67(a)).
Pros.Ex.3, the unofficial cash book of Q-107, shows that during the week commencing on 3 January 194-3 and during each week thereafter to and including the week commencing on 26 April 194-3 cash sales were made at distributing depot Q-1C7. Gordon's, Ryan’s and accused's testimony without conflict corroborates the evidence indicated by the cash book and establishes the fact that during this period (and thereafter) retail cash sales were made at the warehouse directly to consumers with accused's full knowledge and approval. • The cash book transactions were part and parcel of the irregular method of make those sales. They were shown on "tally-outs" issued to the retail "PX" store at Q-107 and to the post-exchange at A4F 595 and in lieu of the articles of merchandise listed thereon each post-exchange officer received the retail value thereof in cash. The making . of said retail sales and the falsifying of the "tally-outs" were acts in direct violation of the instructions and directions contained in Circular No. 55. Accused justified such violation by declaring that such practice "was being done in London" and "because the Colonel permitted it". Such excuses are obviously ho defense.
The sale of Coca-Cola at the distributing warehouse to consumers during the time of the Quartermaster's operations and between 1 December 1942 and 30 April 1943 was clearly established by the evidence and in fact was admitted by accused. These sales yielded a profit which accused asserted was used to paint the warehouse and secure radios and heaters for use therein. This operation was clearly in violation of Circular No. 55.
The evidence is therefore substantial that accused wrongfully and without proper authority effected sales of post-exchange merchandise from distributing depot Q-107 between 1 December 1943 and 30 April 1943 - a period wnen the directions of Circular No. 55 prohibited such sales. The willful violation of an administrative directive constitutes a disorder to the prejudice of good order and military discipline under the 96 Article of War (NCI.!, 1928, par.152a, p.187; Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents -Reprint - p.723) CM 233196 (1943), Bull.JAG, July 1943, Vol.II-, No.7, sec. 441(1), p.27l). •
'The 3oard of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of accused's guilt of the Additional Charge and its Specification.
13.» The charge sheet shows accused as 37 years and ten months of age.
He was ordered to active duty 23 June 1942 as a first lieutenant. No prior service is shown.
rnrG7i
- 27 -
1538
(418)	,
14.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errcrs injuriously affecting the substantial rights *of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and Specification 1 thereof, Charge II and its Specification, the Additional Charge and its Specification and the sentence, but legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification I, Charge I. A sentence of dismissal is mandatory upon conviction of j’ticle of War *95. Confinement in the Eastern Branch, United States Bis-iplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York is authorized ■ (AW 42)«	’	'
- 28 -
1st Ind
(419)
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 1 2	^44	-	TO:	Commanding
General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of First Lieutenant CHESTER F. RHODES (0-909321), Quartermaster Depot Q-107, Quartermaster Corps, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and Specification 1 thereof, Charge II and its Specification, the Additional Charge and its Specification and the sentence, but legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 2, Charge I, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^, you now have authority toorder execution of the sentence.
2.	The offense alleged tinder Specification 2, Charge I was of relatively minor Importance. The sentence to confinement for three years is reasonable considering the nature of the offenses of which accused was found guilty. No reason appears to disturb the sentence.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1538. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1538).
/ Z. C. McNEIL Brigadier General, United I Assistant Judge Advocate
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 25, ETO, 28 Apr 1944)
