#(315)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations
APO 871
Board of Review.
ETO 36A.
UNITED STATES v.
First Lieutenant CURTIS H. HOWE, (0-885550), A.C., 326 Bombardment Squadron, 92nd Bombardment Group (H) AC., 11th Combat Crew, Replacement Center.
31 MAR 1945
) HEADQUARTERS VIII AIR FORCE
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) AAF Station 101, APO 634->
)	23 February 194-3* Sentence:
j Dismissal.
)
)
OPINION of the BOARD OF' REVIEW , RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1,	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above, having been referred by the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, the confirming authority, prior to his action thereon, and pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 4-6, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the branch of The Judge Advocate General's Office for the European Theater of Operations, who, under the provisions of the last paragraph of Article of War 56-g, has, with respect to this case,, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, and to the end that the accused should have an independant review of the record of his trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in keeping with the spirit of Article of War 50-g, and having been referred by him to the Eoard of Review for examination and review, has been examined by the Board of Review, which ‘submits this, its opinion and holding thereon, to him as Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations,
2,	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	blst Article of War.
234996
1
M rmr’iTis 1
33-1
CONFIDENTIAL
Specification:	In	that 1st Lt. Curtis H. Howe,
326th Bombardment Squadron, 11th Combat Crew Replacement Center did without proper leave, absent himself from his post and duties at the 326th Bombardment Squadron, 11th Combat Crew Replacement Center, AAF Station 112, APO 634, from about 14-00 hours January 12, 194-3 to about 1800 hours January 28, 1943*
He pleaded guilty to and was found guilty of-the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
He was sentenced to be "dismissed from the service, confined to hard labor for six months and to forfeit 91.67 per month for a like period." The approving authority approved only so much of the sentence as involved dismissal and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 4-8.
3. The facts are not disputed. Accused was assistant flying control officer at his station which was not a tactical group (R.IO).
On January 10, 1943, accused asked his immediate superior, Flying Officer Eric G. Rees, for a 24 hour pass saying he had to have a medical examination in London. He was told that so far as flying control was concerned he could have a pass and could leave early that afternoon with the understanding that he was to return about two o' clod: on the afternoon of January 12th (R.9). On January 13th accused called Flying Officer Rees by telephone and apologized for being late stating he had been delayed with the medical interview. He had no excuse for the Wednesday absence, but attempted to tell of extenuating circumstances for his absence when Rees refused to listen, saying the matter was out of his hands and that Colonel Smith had been inquiring for accused. Accused then promised to return that night and to see Colonel Smith (R.10). Nothing more was heard from accused and he did not return to his station that night. On January 28th two military police officers were in the Hyde Park Club when accused came in and asked for "Adele" (she was the manager of the club (R.13)) and on being informed that she was not in, asked that she be told that Lieutenant Curtis R. Howe called. When the military police officers heard thi3 name, they asked accused for his identification card and took him to the military police camp. Accused had a bruised eye and a swollen nose which he said he received in a fight and for which he had been to the dispensary (R.12). Four stipulations, which the trial
judge advocate "stated-----------had	been agreed----------were	read	as
follows":	The	first stipulation was to the effect that Captain Patton,
the Adjutant of the 326th Bombardment Squadron, 11th C.C.R.C.,
Station 112, if present would testify that at no time between the 12th and 29th of January 1943 did he give accused permission to be absent from his post and duties and that if present he would identify the sheet of paper now produced as a "true extract of the morning orders of the 326 Bombardment Squardon". "It is further stipulated
234996
- 2
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(317)
that from 12th to 29th January 194-3, accused received no permission for absence from his post and duties” (R.8). The second stipulation agrees that "accused was absent from his post, and duties without the authority of anyone competent to give leave from 14.00 hours on January 12th to 1800 hours January 28” (R.8). Stipulation three was to the effect that the Squadron Commander of 326th Bombardment Squadron "present in court”, if sworn would testify that from January 12th 194-3 to the latter part of the month he was Squadron Commander of the 326th Bombardment Squadron and that "at no time did he give permission to accused to be absent from his squadron” (R.8),
The fourth stipulation was to the effect that Lieutenant Robert S.'
Jerue took accused into custody on January 29th at the headquarters of the London Base Command and brought him back to his Squadron (R.13). On page 8 of the record also appears the following without other remark or explanation: "Prosecution Exhibit 1 (extract of morning report) was then'accepted as evidence by the court."
Major Nathan S. Rubin, Medical Corps, testified he had, in his capacity in the Medical Corps, seen accused twice, once in November 1942 and again on January 12th 194-3 and that accused was to return on the 'afternoon of January 12th but that he did not return then or at any time since (R.14-), Carlisle E. McKee, Captain,
Medical Corps, testified that accused reported to the 7th General Dispensary on January 28th in reference to a possible broken nose but that an Z-ray failed to disclose any fracture (R.15).
Accused made an unsworn statement to the court. In substance he states that he.had had January 11th as a day off and on the 12th went to the office of Major Rubin and was to return in the afternoon for examination. In the meantime, he went to lunch with a married lady he had known for some ten months who told him her husband had questioned her about her going around with an Air Force officer whom he understood had been transferred to the United States Army. She said she had admitted to her husband that she had been going around with accused and asked accused to "contact" him. Accused called the husband and he also saw the lady on the 13th when she told accused she was five months pregnant and her husband was threatening divorce proceedings in which he intended to name accused as co-respondent. Accused, who also was married, saw the husband at various times, almost daily, following this and stayed on in London attempting to reach a settlement, He was threatened and on one occasion badly beaten by the husband following various accusations. Accused stated "as far as that goes, that is the absence," that he was very upsetj that he was in a muddle and did not know which way to turn, and that he knew he was doing wrong but didn't realize it was so serious.
Accused further stated that he had joined the R.C.A.F., in September 194-0, spent eleven months in Service Flying Training School and had served in Canada, and that in November 1942, by his own request, he was transferred to the United States Army. He further stated "I knew I would be punished and I knew I was doing wrong. I am not going to
234996	334
- 3
CONFIDENTIAL
' CONFIDENTIAL
(318)
say I didn't, but it looked to me I was going to get it one way or the other and I didn't want to have all this mess and lose my wife and get stuck with someone else's. It was just a mess" (R.lf$).
"— -------I kept trying to reach some sort of an agreement# One day
he was going to divorce her and the next day he wasn't t-----—",	\
"The beating the man handed me is what really settled the matter.
He got rid of his spleen and that was that." He had not called his commanding officer to ask for an extention of leave because he didn't think he would get it (R.19).
> 1
4.	The accused admits and the evidence of record shows the , accused guilty of the offense charged. His unsworn statement presents prina facie, an explanation of his absence and the urgent , attention which his own personal affairs seemed to him to require.
It is not convincing and does not excuse his offense#.
5.	The record shows an unusual number of irregularities of . form and procedure but pone it is believed affects the legal sufficiency of the record nor prejudicial to accused (AW 37):
(a)	There is no cross-examination of the witness. Captain McKee, and the record fails to indicate that he; was offered to the defense for cross-examination (R.15). Cross-examination of a witness as to facts relevant to the issue is a matter of right not of discretion,- (Wharton's Criminal Evidence, p.216). \
(b)	With the exception of Lieutenant Colonel Breedlove, the officers promoted between the date of their appointment to the court and the date of trial, are referred to by their prior titles, with footnotes indicating their promotions. The better practice is to give them their current titles and attach to the record of trial a certificate of their promotion or to add a notation to the effect that they had been promoted since their appointment to the court. Lieutenant Colonel Breedlove, however, is referred to as "Lt, Col.", with no explanation of promotion or otherwise. He is however, satisfactorily identified as the Major Breedlove appointed to the court by his serial number and branch designation.
(c)	The accused's plea of guilty was received but the record does not indicate that the meaning and effect thereof had been explained to>him. However, the record would indicate that the plea was advisedly made and all the statements of•accused were consistent with the plea. Failure to explain a plea of guilty is not fatal, (CM 210941, Williams) and it may be assumed that defense counsel performed his duty.
(d)	Four stipulations are read into the record by the trial judge advocate but with the exception of the first one, there is no express indication that the defense agreed to them. Each of these stipulations should have been agreed to in open court by-accused personally and by his counsel. However, defense counsel initialed the record at the end thereof indicating assent thereto.
234996
3G4
CCKFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(319)
(e) The sentence given provides dismissal, confinement at hard labor for six months and also forfeiture of $91.67 per month for a like period. As pay stops on separation from the service it is evident that so far as the forfeiture is concerned this sentence is a nullity. The sentence, however, is not wholly void but is valid as to that part thereof extending to dismissal 5 and confinement at hard labor for six months. The void part must be disregarded (CM ETO 292 - Mickles) as the reviewing authority has done in approving the sentence, -.
6,	' Accused is 41 years old. He was ordered to active duty 24 November. 1942 and assigned to the 11th C.C.lt.B. Bomber Command 27 November 1942. No prior service of accused in the armed forces of the United States is shown. .
7.	The court was legally constituted. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The record of trial is legally sufficient to -support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Dismissal is -authorized.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
CONFIDENTIAL
364
23493?.
UUNFIDENTIAL
(320)
1st Ind.
YID, ETO Branch - JAGO.	31	^AR	1943
TO:	Commanding	General,	European Theater of Operations,
APQ 887, U.S. Army.
1.	Herewith transmitted is the record of trial, together with the opinion of the Board of Review, in the case of First Lieutenant Curtis H. Howe, 0-885550, 326th Bombardment Squadron, 92nd Bombardment Group (H) AC, 11th Combat Crew Replacement Center*
2.	Upon trial by general court-martial this officer was found guilty of absence without leave in violation of the 6lst Article of War, He was sentenced to dismissal from the service, confinement at hard labor for six months and to forfeit $91.67 per month for a like period. The reviewing authority approved only so much of the sentence as involves dismissal and forwarded 'the record of trial for action under Article of War 4-8.
3* Prior to your action thereon, you referred the record to me under the provisions of Article of War 46, and, in order to expedite final action in the case, and more especially to insure to the accused the' independent and impartial examination of-the record of trial by the Board of Review, in accord with the provisions and in , keeping with' the spirit of Articles of War 48 and 50^, under the provisions of the latter article and, before examination by me, I referred th5 record to the Board of Review for its examination and opinion.•^Normally, pursuant to instructions of The Judge Advocate General, action by the confirming authority (other than the President) is required, under the provisions of the third paragraph of Article of War 5Uikt before the record is- referred to the Board of Review.
However, your reference of the record to me, prior to your action thereon, under the provisions of Article of War 4-6, which expressly authorizes such reference, since I, as an Assistant Judge Advocate General, have, tinder the provisions of the last paragraph of Article of War 50^, with respect to this case, like powers and duties as The Judge Advocate General, changes the normal situation indicated above. . Under such circumstances, should I pass on the record under Article of War 4-6, in lieu of and as your staff judge advocate, and return the record for your action prior to its examination by the Board of Review, it would then be necessary, after your action, for the Board of Review to examine the record to determine its legal sufficiency. Such a procedure would deny the accused the independent review of the, record by the Board of Review, provided by Article of War 50$, since the report of my examination and my recommendation	c
under Article of War 4-6 would, be a part of the file of the case when it reached the Board, of Review. It would also place me in the anomalous position of acting as staff judge advocate under Article of War 4,6 before the review of the Board of Review and as Judge
234996 /	304
’	-t- nnNFinFNTUl
CONFIDENTIAL
(321)
Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, after such review, under Articles of War 48 and 50%. In my opinion, to'follow such a procedure would,deny the accused a substantial right given him by Articles of War 48 and 50%. On the other hand, following the procedure I have adopted denies the accused nothing, but fully ... protects his rights. I am convinced this is the procedure The Judge Advocate General would follow on a reference to him, under Article of War 46, for the reason that in such event, he would occupy the dual role of staff judge advocate and The Judge Advocate General, as he does when the President is the confirming authority and would follow the procedure prescribed for the latter class of cases. In my opinion the full protection of the rights of the accused vouchsafed to him under the Articles of War requires this procedure,
4.	The Board of Review summarizes the evidence in the accompanying opinion and holds that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence and to warrant confirmation of the sentence. I have carefully examined the record and concur in the opinion and holding.
5.	On the matter of clemency this case has given me some concern.' Absenteeism is divided into four classes:
Absent without leave under AW 61.
Such absence coupled with intent to shirk some duty under AW 96.
Such absence, coupled with intent to shirk hazardous duty or important service Tinder AW 28. (A type of desertion).
Desertion.
Bare absence without leave, as charged in this case, generally is considered the least serious of.these offenses, and in normal times one, unless aggravated, which scarcely justifies as drastic punishment as-dismissal. However, war conditions necessarily increase the seriousness of all unauthorized absences. Under the Articles of War desertion at once becomes a capital offense.,- The President has removed the limits on punishment for absence without leave in violation of AW 61, when committed by enlisted men. No limits ever existed in the case of officers. So that at this time all unauthorized absences, other than desertion, are punishable by any punishment a court-martial may fix, except death.
It is obvious that for an officer to be absent without leave is a most serious infraction of discipline. To treat it lightly in time of war would be ruinous of discipline, and would jeopardize our war effort.	Punishment must be drastic in any case
of unauthorized absence in time of war, and more drastic in the case of officers.
234996
354
CONFIDENTIAL
<3»)
. •- ? •
In the instant case, the guilt is admitted and clearly proven. An attempt at mitigation was made by the accused in an unsworn statement. Concerning this there is in the reyiew of the Staff Judge Advocate the following comment: '	w
"The unsworn statement of accused presents a plausible explanation of the reasons^motivating him in his offense, • and tend to show that he was under strong emotional pressure to take time off fop his own personal affairs.^1
Even so,, this furnishes no excuse.' I have studied this .statement carefully. In my opinion it does not ring true. It lacks frankness.
It gives me the impression that it is made up of half truths,,— one of the worst forms of evasion. The fact that it was unsworn is itself of moment when considering mitigation. It causes It to appear that accused did not care to be questioned on his explanation. In other words, that he did not wish to lay all his cards on the tabLe. This indicates a trait of character undesirable in an officer. /TThe accused states that "the beating the man handed me is what really settled the matter. He got rid of his spleen .and that was that,?1 The "beating" occurred on the 24th but accused was- still absent without leave on the evening of the 28th, when he was apprehended. How much longer his absence would have continued is problematical^ Bather than mitigating, to my mind, his statement tends to aggravate. Such also seems to have been the view- of the court.
The accused stated that he had never seen the Articles of War or had them read to him, and did not realise the seriousness of the-: offense. While ignorance of the law as to purely military offenses may be taken into consideration in the case of a recruit, for obvious reasons this does not apply in the case of officers. Even though accused had been in our service less than two months, according to his own statement he joined the Royal Canadian Air Force in September, 194-0, and was commissioned in February, 1941. His service has been continuous. An officer owes the duty to keep himself informed. That burden is not on the Army. ^i-Hor is there merit in his appeal that he now believes he was ill-advised by his counsel "especially when advised to plead 'guilty* ". Obviously the proof of guilt was very easy-. His plea of guilty was unimportant. It also appears that the character-of his service has been poor; that he is badly involved in debt; and it is indicated that in one instance he passed a bad check.
The need for officer material is great, but this must be weighed with the requirements of discipline. Viewed from all angles the latter, in my opinion, weigh heaviest in this case; and I am also constrained to agree with the staff judge advocate that "the accused ifl not a credit to the service".
t *
2349960-
onut rmniTU I
364
CONFIDENTIAL
(323)
6. For the foregoing reasons I an of the opinion that sufficient clemency already has been given in this case; and I accordingly recommend that the sentence, as approved by the reviewing authority, be confirmed. I inclose a fom of action designed to confirm the sentence and carry it into execution should such action meet with your . approval.
Brigadier General, U.S.
Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations.
(Sentence as approved by convening authority confirmed and ordered executed. OCMQ 6, ETO, 6 Apr 19A3)
364
A A d a /m

#(325)
