#(141)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
eto 121.	£4	DEC	1942
UNITED STATES v.
)	UNITED	STATES ARLIY FORCES
s	IN ICELAND.
Private 1st Class Francis L. Shoupe (13009087) Private 1st Class John B. Ellis (13003928) Private 1st Class Joseph A.KcDevitt (13007700) Private John Saroka, Jr.	(13007687)
Corporal Richard M. Thompson	(14002335)
Staff Sergeant John T. Burke	( 6057726)
Staff Sergeant Harry B. Vanderlip (12003113) Private Charles Farlow	(13026845)
Private Herman H. Hass	(13026813)
Private Joseph C. Loddo	(13006155)
(all of Co."A" 241st Quartermaster Battalion). Private 1st Class Cornelius Wilson ( 6132959; Private 1st Class Victor L. Barker ( 6985736) Private John T. Gullett	(14000856)
Private James A. Hinson	(I4030464)
(all of Co."Bn 392nd Quartermaster Battalion).
: Trial by G.C.M. convened at Camp : Curtis, Iceland, 25 September 1942. :	Sentences Vanderlip and Farlow,
s charges withdrawn before trial;
: Burke, Hass, Loddo, Gullett, Hinson s Barker and Wilson, acquitted:
: Shoupe, Ellis, LcDevitt, Saroka : and Thompson, to be each reduced : to the grade of private, confined : at hard labor for six months and : to forfeiture of so much of their : pay each month for a like period : as is hereinafter set out.
Prison Stockade.
•
)
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1. The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined in the Office of the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review, which submits this, its opinion, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations.
2. The accused were tried upon the following Charge and Specification: CHARGE:	Violation	of	the 94th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Staff Sergeant John T. Burke, Company A,
241st Quartermaster Battalion, Private First Class Francis L. Shoupe, Company A, 241st Quartermaster Battalion and Vanderlip, Harry B.,Sergeant, Ellis John B., Private.
Farlow, Charles, Private. Hass, Herman H., Private.
Loddo, Joseph C, Private. LIcDevitt, Joseph A,, Private Saroka, John, Jr., Private. Thompson, Richard LI., Private.
All the above,
.y^ibe^^o^ Company A, 241st Quartermaster Battalion,
nrvMrinrMTi a t
121
U'ONMjLi'l ! InU
Wilson, Cornelius, Private First Class,
Barker, Victor L., Private.
Gullett, Jolin T., Private.
Hinson, James A., Private.
All the above, members of Company B, 392nd Quartermaster Battalion.
acting jointly and in conjunction with each other and in pursuance of a common cause and intent, did, at Reykjavik, Iceland, on or about April 27, 1942, while acting as agent and custodian for the Government of the United States, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to their own use and benefit and to the use and benefit of each of them, 31 parkas value $11.99 each, total value $371.69, the property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof, intrusted to them and each of them by Colonel Matthew H. Jones, Base Quartermaster, U.S. Army.
The trial judge advocate announced that by direction of Major General Bonesteel, the appointing authority, the prosecution withdrew the charge and specification against Sergeant Harry B. Vanderlip and Private Charles Farlow, and would not pursue the same further at the present trial (R.3). Each of the others above named pleaded not guilty to said charge and specification. Staff Sergeant John T. Burke, Private Herman H. Hass, Private Joseph C. Loddo, Private First Class Cornelius Wilson, Private Victor L. Barker, Private John T. Gullett and Private James A. Hinson, were each acquitted of the charge and specification. Private First Class Francis L. Shoupe,.Private First Class John B. Ellis, Private First Class Joseph A. McDevitt, Private John Saroka, Jr., and Corporal Richard I1.'., Thompson were found, of the specification and of the charge, guilty except the words "acting jointly and in conjunction with each other and in pursuance of a common cause and intent" and "while acting as agent and custodian for the government of the United States, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to their own use and benefit and to the use and benefit of each of them, 31 parkas" and "each, total value $371.69" and "intrusted to them and each of them by Colonel Matthew H. Jones, Base Quartermaster, II. S. Army," substituting therefore, respectively, the words "knowingly and willfully apply to his own use and benefit" and "one parka", of the excepted words not guilty, of the substituted words guilty. Of the charge:	Guilty. Each were sentenced as follows:
Private First Class Francis L. Shoupe, to be reduced to the grade of private, confined at hard labor for six months and to forfeit $16.00 per month for a like period:
Private First Class John B. Ellis, to be reduced to the grade of private, confined at hard labor for six months and to forfeit $29.00 per month for a like period:
Private First Class Joseph A. McDevitt, to be reduced to the grade of private, confined at hard labor for six months and to forfeit $33.00 per month for a like period:
c
f'.MC'
1 T K •
;r.M
;nL
23814§
121
CUNMUL^ NHL
(143)
Private John Saroka, Jr., to be confined at hard labor for six months and to forfeit $17.00 per month for a like period:
Corporal Richard M. Thompson, to be reduced to the grade of private, confined at hard labor for six months and to forfeit $16.00 per month for a like period.
The reviewing authority approved the sentences and designated the U.S. Army Forces Prison Stockade as the place of confinement for each.
The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Orders No.91, Headquarters, U. S. Army Forces, APO 860, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y., dated 6 November 1942.
3.	The record fails to show that any investigation of 'the acts charged was at any time made. No statements of any persons purporting to have any knowledge of the facts alleged in the charge or any part thereof are found with the record of trial. The only attached papers are the report of the record of trial, of the officer appointed to investigate the charges herein, which discloses no testimony given by any witness, no witnesses required by the accused and that none of the accused made any statements but notwithstanding, he recommended that each be tried by a general court, which recommendation was also made by the Staff Judge Advocate. Although not shown by legal evidence herein, it rather vaguely appears that some parkas with other merchandize were stolen during the unloading of a ship in the harbor of Reykjavik, Iceland, by soldiers detailed for that purpose by Colonel Matthew H. Jones, Base Quartermaster, U. S. Army, of which details accused may have been members although not so shown and who some time later were each found to be in possession of a, parka. The record consists very largely of the testimony of First Lieutenant Benjamin F. Allen, 812th Military Companv, Assistant Provost Marshall, Camp Haggi, Iceland, read from admittedly (R.29) incomplete notes of unknown origin of an apparent investigation by Lieutenant Colonel Jesse P. Green, Provost Marshall, Headquarters, U. S. Army Forces, of alleged thefts and which notes were not offered nor admitted in evidence. Lieut. Allen was not the investigating officer under AW 70.
The evidence as to each of the accused found guilty is substantially as follows:
John B. Ellis:	Before	questioning	Ellis, Lieut. Allen stated that he ’’warned
him of his rights under the 24th Article of War, warned him against perjury, and swore him" (R.20). Ellis, sworn as a witness, said, he had made a statement orally to Lieut. Allen; that Lieut. Allen mentioned "perjury or something in regard to my being allowed to be quiet, but he also stated that in the event that I could give him enough information that he desired, that General Bonesteel gave him permission to send anyone back to the States who gave him enough information. In other words in another case - he remarks - of a court-martial, when he was in a training corps in a southern post, he said that over a few packs of cigafcettes how a certain party had got a considerable amount of time in years and said as far as he knew right there, there probably wouldn't even be a trial. He said 'Just tell me*
3 £ 4 4 8 3 -
121
CONFIDENTIAL
(1M)
what the story is and thats all there will be to it'."
(R.23)• Ellis never made an unsolicited statement (R.26).
Lieut. Allen stated that the supply records (R.47, 106) showed Ellis had not been issued a parka but from other sources the Lieutenant found Ellis had one and on the Lieutenant's order (R.47) Ellis turned it over to him. The Lieutenant identified a parka (Exhibit B) by the name he had written in the sleeve as the one taken by him from Ellis (R.4-5).
Francis L. Shoupe:	Lieut. Allen identified a parka (Exhibit D) by the
name he had written in the sleeve, as a parka taken from Shoupe (R.57). On page 58 of the record the objection by Defense Counsel to the admission of the statement made by Shoupe to Lieut. Allen because made with belief that there would be a reward for making such statement, was sustained by the Law Member of the Court but he later overruled an objection by the defense counsel to a similar question (R,6l). Lieutenant Allen testified:
Q. - "Lieutenant Allen, will you state to the court what statements Private Shoupe made to you? I refer to page 125"? (Apparently refers to page of notes).
A. - He stated: "I went down to the docks on or about the middle of April. Ellis told me about a box of
parkas" --- (R.6l). (Witness stopped on objection
to reference to any of co-accusedJ.
Q. - "Where did he get this parka. Lieutenant Allen?"
A. - "Down on the docks".
Q. - "Where was the parka?"
A. - "It was, he stated, it was in the box."
Q. - "And where was this box?"
A, - "Well, they loaded it on the trucks down on the docks, sir. That's his statement." (R.63).
Q. - "The box was taken from the docks and loaded onto a truck?"
A. - "According to this statement, yes."(Underscoring supplied).
Q. - "And what was done with this box of parkas?"
A. - "The box was taken off the truck and put in Private Shoupe's hut, and he stated the parkas were divided."
Q. - "And what was done with the parkas?"
A. - "The parkas, he stated, were given to Ellis, Saroka,
L'cDevitt" — (Objection made and sustained to mention of names of other accused).
Q. - "Did Private Shoupe know that these parkas were government property?"
A. - "Well, he stated: "I don't know anything about other government property that was reported stolen because I was working in the supplv room at the time the parkas were stolen." (R.64J*
Q. - "Lieutenant Allen, were there any other identification marks in these parkas other than the marks you stated you put in them?"
236148
ftAnirinriuTi \i
121
CONFIDENTIAL
A. - "I don't believe there was.”
Q. - "Lieutenant Allen, you made testimony regarding
statements made by Private Shoupe to you. At that time you were very indefinite as to whether or not any statements regarding leniency were made to Private Shoupe. I wish you would think that over and in the light of your former testimony state whether or not any statement was made to Private Shoupe which would hold out hope of leniency in his case?”
A* - "Well, I believe I did state to him that Colonel Green told me to tell him that if he would tell the whole story concerning the watches and parkas and all stuff that was stolen, then he would see to it that higher authorities knew about it, he would bring it to their attention.” (R.109).
Joseph A. McDevitt:	Lieut.	Allen	identified	a	parka	(Exhibit C) by the
name he had written in the sleeve, as a parka he had taken from McDevitt (R.49), and that on checking the supply records, he found that no parka had been issued to McDevitt. He told McDevitt to bring his parka to him.
Q. - "What did you state to Private McDevitt when he turned this in to you?"
A. - "Well, he turned it in to me and made the statement to me that—- first I had him called in and explained his rights"--------
Q. - "Will you explain to the court what you mean that you stated to Private McDevitt that you explained his rights to him."
A, - "I told Private McDevitt under the 24th Article of War he was not compelled to answer any questions which tended to incriminate or degrade him; I warned him of perjury, explained perjury to him, and told him if he told the whole truth that Colonel Green would bring it to the attention of the proper authorities." (R.50)•
Q. - "Did you make any statements to Private McDevitt other than those I have asked you prior to questioning him?"
A. - "Well, I don't know what I might have said to him at that time." (R.?6).
John Saroka, Jr:	Lieut.	Allen identified a parka (Exhibit F) ty the name
he had put in the sleeve as a parka brought in to him by Saroka (R.67). Lieutenant O'Callaghan, 241st Quartermaster Battalion gave evidence that the supply records do not show that a parka was issued to Saroka (R.4l)•
Q. - "Prior to questioning Private Saroka, what statements did you (Lieutenant Allen) make to him?"
A. - "I explained his rights under the 24th Article of War,
explained perjury and warned him against perjury." (R.67).
Q. - "What statements did Private Saroka make to you?"
236148-5.
PflMnnCM
±;
CONFIDENTIAL*
(US)
A. - "He stated:	I got the parka that I had from the docks
when the Barinqueen was in. I got it out of a box that was sitting on the east end of the Main Quay. The box was broken open before I got my parka. I don't know who broke it open though. The box of parkas was just sitting there so I took one. I know that they vers government property. I saw Ellis and"-—.
Q. - "How did it happen that you asked Private Saroka to turn in the parka to you?"
A. - "Well, upon mentioning that he had ti© parka, then I told him to turn it in." (R.68)*
Richard H. Thompson:	Lieut.	Allen	identified	a parka (Exhibit E) by the name
he had put in the sleeve as a parka taken from Thompson (R.64). The company Bupply records (R.41) show no issue of a parka to Thompson. Lieut. Allen questioned Thompson when he took the parka from him:
Q. - "What did you state to him prior to the questioning?
I refer you to page 162"*
A. - "I explained his rights under the 24th Article of War, explained perjury, and warned him against perjury."
Q. - "Did you make any promises to him?"
A. - "I did not."
Q. - "Did you make any statements to him?"
A. - "Well, I don't remember."
Q. - "Was tnere any question in your mind that the statements which he made were voluntary?"
A.. — "Yes, I think they were voluntary."
Q. - "Did you give Private Thompson any hope of benefit or feeling that he would be exempt from trial by court-martial?"
A. - "I don't believe I did." (R.65).
Q. - "What statements did Private Thompson make to you?"
(Objection of defense counsel to the admission of such statements as not voluntarily made, was overruled.)
A. - "He stated:	I	haven't	had	a parka issued to me. The
parka I have I got from the Borirqueen, the seoond trip it made over here. A merchant marine gave it to me. He had three of them on the boat and there was about four or five of us around there, and he gave the parkas to us. jfrid not know that they were government property at that time. Sergeant Vanderlip got one of the parkas ,«mhhhh»«
Q. - "Did he make any other statements to you Lieutenant Allen?"
A. - "Yes, he stated:	I	did	not	get a parka at Langholt
Dump. I know nothing about this." (R.66).
The objections by the defense counsel to the admission of the testimony of Lieut. Allen of the purported statements of the various accused were frequent and timely and the trial judge advocate stated in open court:"The prosecution is quite frank to admit that the only evidence I have and can offer in this case are the statements made by these men to Lieutenant Allen" (R.51). When the law member sustained the objections of defense
236448
c. _
f'nMrmrMTi * i
121
CONFIDENTIAL.
(U7)
counsel to the admission of such testimony the trial judge advocate asked the court for assistance and requested a week's adjournment (R.56) after ftyiich the law member overruled new objections to the admission of such testimony and It was admitted* When asked why he explained the meaning of perjury when he examined accused, Lieut* Allen said, he explained it to every man brought before to make a statement (R*10l).
Q* - "Can a perjure himself when he is not under oath?”
A* - "Well, I don't believe you could call it perjury.
Q* - "Were these men under oath?"
A, - "They were,"
Q. - "All of them?"
A. - "Yes.
Q. -’"Who swore them in?"
A. - "I did."
Q. - "On what authority?"
A. - "I was appointed investigating officer, by Colonel Green."
Q. - "When?"
A. - "I don't recall the date".
Q. - "What sort of an order did Colonel Green give you -was it oral or written?"
A. - "I believe it was oral," (R.102).
Q. - "Did he appoint you an investigating officer or did he . tell you to investigate the case of the thefts at the docks?"
A. - "He appointed me an investigating officer of that case; as I was on detached service with the Colonel, he had the authority to appoint me."
Q. - "In what capacity did he have authority to appoint an investigating officer?"
A. - "I don't know other than he was my commanding officer at that time."
Q. - "Do the men sign these statements?"
A. - "Well, I don't see the men's signature on these statements." (R.102).
Q. - "Did I understand you to say there was a shake-down inspection?"
A. - "There was."
Q. - "At the time of this inspection were any parkas found?" _
A. - I don't know whether there was any found or not." (R.107).
Q. - "Were any parkas picked up?"
A. - "I remember that other parkas were turned in the
orderly room and then later sent back out. I don't know the circumstances of that." (R.107).
Q. - "Lieutenant Allen, at the beginning of the trial you made the statement which appears on the record, that you made a promise to all of these men that if they told the truth, Colonel Green would take it to the higher authorities; is that correct?"
A# - "I believe I told him that Colonel Green would see to it that higher authorities would know about it.
233448
7
±21
CONFIDENTIAL
(U8)
Q. - "Did you tell that to all of the accused prior to making a statement?"
A. - "I believe I did."
Q. - "To every one of them?"
A. - "I believe so." (R.108).
Q. - "Lieutenant Allen, did you not read excerpts from that book which stated that certain men being held from that investigation should be awakened eve?y7hour?"
A. - "I believe I did."(R.105).
At the end of the trial the law member ruled! "It is the ruling of the law member that the testimony of Lieut. Allen as to the statements made to him by the various accused are inadmissible" (R.117, 119).
Prosecution's witness First Lieutenant William H. Glanz explained the procedure of unloading ships, stating, "Every soldier is an agent of the government" (R.16) "and have custody and control over the goods on the ships while tinloading" (R.13). Lieutenant-Colonel Jesse P. Green denied that investigating officers like Lieut. Allen•are privileged to make any promises of leniency (R.lll) and Sergeant Raymond N. Stofer, a clerk in the Base Quartermaster property office placed the value of an Alpaca lined parka at $11.99 (R.110).
4.	The five of the accused were convicted of having knowingly and willfully applied to their own use and benefit one parka, value $11.99, property of the United States, furnished and intended for the military use thereof, as a lesser included offense to that charged.
The original charge was embezzlement which is the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom it has been intrusted or into whose hands it has lawfully come (Moore v. U.S., 160 U.S. 268;	1928	M.C.M.
pg.173).
Misapplication is an appropriation not of the ownership of the property but of its use for the personal benefit of the offender (Winthrop, 1920 Reprint, pg.708).
Article of War 70, among other things requires that "no charge will be referred to a General Court-Martial for trial until after a thorough and impartial investigation thereof shall have been made". The papers accompanying the record herein show the proper reference of the charge for investigation on 15 July 1942 to Major Joseph McNamee, Ordnance Department together with his report of 4 August 1942, stating! "there was no testimony given by any witness," "no witnesses were required by the accused" and the accused "stated that they did not desire to make any statements'." This was followed by the recommendation of Major McNamee "that each be tried by a general court". Dated 21 August 1942 is a "Summary of evidence and action of Staff Judge Advocate pursuant to AW 70 and par. 35 C, Manual for Courts-Martial" signed by the Staff Judge Advocate and attached to the record of trial. After listing the names of accused it consists only of a paragraph stating:
236418
CONFIDENTIAL
121
CONFIDENTIAL
(H9)
"The indicated evidence shows that all of the accused acted jointly by aiding and abetting each other and that each of the accused removed from a case or box 31 parkas or were found to be in possession of one or more of said parkasj that each of the accused converted to their own use and benefit one or more of the parkas; that each of the accused were acting as agents and custodians for the parkas for the purpose of removal of said parkas, a part of the cargo of a ship, from one point to another in the course of their duty and employment";
and a paragraph stating the charge and specification to be appropriate and the indicated evidence sufficient to support a finding of guilty of each of accused and recommending that the charges be referred to a general court-martial for trial
There is in this record however, no evidence of any actual investigation; no witnesses were questioned; none were called; no statements of anyone at any time were taken by the investigating officer. Although he states in his report that he has "investigated the enclosed charges", his further statement that there was no testimony given by any witness, no witnesses were required by the accused and accused made no statements, together with the entire absence from the record and attached papers of anything to indicate upon what facts or circumstances the charges originated or were based, negatives any presumption even of compliance with AW 70,
"The provisions of AW 70 with reference to investigating charges are mandatory and there must be a substantial compliance therewith before charges can be legally referred for trial. A court-martial is without jurisdiction to try an accused upon charges referred to it for trial without having been first investigated in substantial compliance with the provisions of AW 70 and, in such a case, the court-martial proceedings are void ab initio".
(C.M.161728. Dig.Op., JAG.1912-1940, pg.292).
This record fails to show any substantial compliance with the requirements of AW 70 and the Board of Review is therefore of the opinion that there was no legal reference of the charge for trial, no jurisdiction obtained for trial and that the court-martial proceedings herein are void ab initio.
5.	Assuming however, that the reference of this charge for trial was properly made, it would still remain necessary to prove that (a) that the accused applied to their own use the parkas in question; (b) that these parkas were the property of the United States and that they were furnished or intended for use in the military •service thereof as alleged; (c) the value of the parkas in question and (d) the facts and circumstances indicating that the acts of the accused were willfully, knowingly and (wrongfully) done.
The evidence consisted principally of the reading by an assistant provost marshall of notes whose author and origin were not disclosed and which were not offered nor admitted in the trial as an
S>33448-« .
121
CONFIDENTIAL
(150)
exhibit. The readings purported to be statements, admittedly incomplete and secured by the holding out of the hope of reward, admitted over the timely and repeated objections of defense counsel and ruled as inadmissible by the law member when the taking of testimony had been completed (R.117,
119).
A confession of guilt by accused is admissible against him when, and only when, it was freely and voluntarily made without having been induced by the expectation of any promised benefit or by the fear of any threatened injury, or by the exertion of any improper influence (22 C.J.S. 1425). Nor can an accused be convicted legally upon his unsupported confession. (1928 M.C.M. par.114, pg.. 114*1
A confession must be voluntary and the onus to show that it was such is upon the prosecution in offering it (Winthrops Military Law &	*
Precedents, Reprint, pg.328).
Considering all the testimony however, it is not shown anywhere that the parkas in question were the property of the United States, furnished and intended for use in the military service thereof; it is not shown that any parkas are missing from the property of the United States.
It may be admitted that the accused had parkas which were likely used by them, but it is not anywhere shown that their possession and use of the parkas (Exhibits) was wrongful.
Failure to show that the property belonged to the government as alleged is fatal. (CM.192952, Scales: CM 207591, Nash et al; CM' 208895, Zerkel).
Sergeant Raymond B. Stofer placed the value of an Alpaca lined parka at $11.99 each. There is no testimony that the parkas in question, exhibits or otherwise, were alpaca lined; in fact no attempt was made to describe them in any manner.
When the testimony of Lieut. Allen is removed, as it properly was, from consideration of the court, nothing remains but the testimony that accused were not shown by the supply records, admittedly incomplete and in terrible condition, to have been issued a parka.
"Upon every criminal trial - military as well as civil - the burden is on the prosecution, to establish guilt, not on the accused to establish his innocence. In the establishing of guilt, there are to be demonstrated three principal facts, viz:	That the act charged as an offense
was really committed; that the accused committed it; that he committed it with the requisite criminal intent." (V.rinthrop3 Military Law and Precedents, Reprint, pg.314; 1928 M.C.M. pg.62, par.78.)
236148
- 10
CO*'rjnrp'T'.
121
UUNMOtiM ! irtL
(151)
"When evidence is of sufficient probative force, a crime may be established by circumstantial evidence, provided that there is positive proof of the facts from which the inference of guilt is to be drawn and that that inference is the only one which can reasonably be drawn from those facts."
(People v. Raziziez, 99 N.E. 557; CM 216004,
Roberts. Miller).
The record shows "the proceedings where the president consulted
with the counsels for the accused and the trial judge advocate are withdrawn. The president stated in his remarks therein that it had nothing to do with the substance of the testimony. The subject of the discussion was Miscarriage of Justice" (R.120).
"Justice according to law, demands more than that accused be guilty - it demands that they be proved guilty." (CM 207591, Nagh, Morris).
"We must look alone to the evidence as we find it in the record, and applying to it the measure of the law, ascertain whether or not it fills that measure*
It will not do to sustain convictions based upon suspicions or inadequate testimony. It would be a dangerous precedent to do so, and would render precarious the protection which the law seeks to throw around the lives and liberties of the citizens," (Buntain v State, 15 Tex. Appeals, 590) (Cf: CM 212505, Tipton.)
"The Board of Review in scrutinizing proof and the basis of inference does not weigh evidence or usurp the findings of courts and reviewing authorities in determining controverted questions of fact. In its capacity of an appellate body, it must however, in every case determine whether there is evidence of record legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty on which the sentence is based. If any part of a finding of guilty rests on an inference of fact, it is the duty of the Board of Review to determine whether there is in the evidence a reasonable basis for that inference." (CM 212505, Tipton).
These minimum requirements are not even approached herein and the
Board of Review is therefore of the opinion that the evidence of record in this case is not legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty on which the sentences *
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
Advocate
121
21 " CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind
2 6 DEC [942
Y/AR DEPARTMENT, Office of Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, APO 871, U. S. Army.
TO: Commanding General, European Theater of Oneratlons, U. Sv Army,
APO 887.
1. Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 5&k} as amended by the.act of August 20, 1937 (Pub. No.325, 75th Cong.), and as further amended by act of August 1, 1942 (Pub. No.693, 77th Cong.), is the record of trial in the case of:
Private 1st	Class	Francis	L. Shoupe,	(13009087)	,	Co."A”,
Private 1st	Class	John B.	Ellis,	(13003928)	,	Co."A",
Private 1st	Class	Joseph A. McDevitt,(13007700)	,	Co."A",
Private John Saroka, Jr.,	(13007687)	,	Co."A”,
Corporal Richard M, Thompson,	(14002335)	,	Co.”A”,
together with the foregoing opinion of the Board of Review.
2. I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings and sentences be vacated, and that all rights, privileges and property of which each of the accused has been deprived by virtue of said sentences be restored.
3. Inclosed herewith is a form of action designed to carry into effect the above recommendation should it meet with your approval.
241st Q.M. Bn. 241st Q.M. Bn. 241st Q.M. Bn. 241st Q.M. Bn. 241st Q.M. Bn.
(ETO 121).
l: h: HEDRICK, Brigadier General,
Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations,
\
3 Incls:
Incl, 1 - Record of Trial
Incl. 2 - Opinion of Board of Review
Incl. 3 - Form of Action
(Findings and sentence vacated by order of the Theater Commander -see letter Hq. ETO, 10 Feb 1943 (ref. AG 250.4 EJA))
CONH^N'flAL'
230448
#(153)
