#(325)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 799.
30 SEP 1943
Captain ROYSTON T. BOOKER (0-921950), Corps of Engineers.
UN I'TED STATES
)	EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES
)	OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER CF
)	OPERATIONS.
)
)	Trial by G.C.M., convened at
)	Mansfield, England, 5-6 August
)	19A3. Sentence: To be disitissed
)	the service.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHCTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations .
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	85th Article of War.
(Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification:	(Finding	of	Not	Guilty).
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Captain	Royston	T.	Booker
C of E 2nd District EBS, was, at Grantham, Lincolnshire, on or about 19 July 194-3, drunk in uniform in a public place, to wit, the Angel Hotel Tap Room, Grantham, Lincolnshire, England between 1930 hours and 2000 hours 19 July 1943.
CHARCE III: Violation of the 69th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Captain	Royston	T.	Booker,
C of E 2nd District IBS having been duly placed in arrest in quarters on or about 20 July 1943, did at or near Grantham, Lincolnshire, England „ on or about 20 July 1943, break his said arrest before herns set at liberty by proper authority.
CONFIDENTIAL
He pleaded not guilty and was found not guilty of Charge I and its Specification and guilty of Charges II and III and their Specifications.
No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer, Eastern Base Section, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations, approved the sentence but ordered its execution withheld pursuant to Article of War 50£. The Board of Review has treated the record of trial as if forwarded as directed by Article of Y/ar AS. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and pursuant to Article of War 50^-, withheld the execution thereof.
3. As accused was found not guilty of Charge I and its Specification charging drunkenness on 8 July 19A3, review of the testimony covering that charge is omitted.
Accused is a graduate civil engineer who had been in the construction contracting business for himself prior to entering the army in January 19A3.	He had spent four months in camps in the United States
prior to arriving in this area where he was assigned as "Area Engineer in the Northern District" with general inspection duties in Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire and Rutland (R29). Colonel John W. Oehmann, Commanding Officer, Second District, Eastern Base Section was his Commanding Officer (RAO).
Master Sergeant Carmel H. Broadfoot, Second Engineer District, testified that on the evening of 19 July 19A3 between 1900 and 2000 hours, he was in the tap room of the Angel Hotel at Grantham (R17), a town about four miles from Headquarters (R31) where accused lived (R20,23,30,Al)•
At about 19A0 hours accused walked in, spoke to witness and proceeded to the bar where he ordered a beer. After it had been served to him witness testified that "he asked the proprietress for a whiskey. After the proprietress served the whiskey he asked that it be made a double whiskey. After the double whiskey had been served, Captain Booker drank the double whiskey. He was standing in there. It looked like he was going to get sick. He made quite a face, hung his head. I thought he was going to get sick from the indications. After he did straighten up, he drank his beer and then walked out of the Angel pub. He was in the Angel pub approximately 15 minutes". In the opinion of the witness accused was drunk. "Y<hen the Captain ordered his drinks and the way he walked in before he ordered his drinks he didn’t carry himself the way I had known the Captain to carry himself. Y/hen he ordered his drink (R17) he didn’t order just what he wanted. He ordered singly. The way he paid for his drinks and the money, the lady that served him had to help him count his money and the way everybody watched him".
The following morning at about 900 hours, Colonel Oehmann ordered witness to go (R18) with Second Lieutenant Thomas A. Simpson, Administrative Officer and Detachment Commander (R2l) to look for accused. They
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
OuiiriutNllAL
(327)
went from headquarters to Grantham, approximately four miles away and at about 1000 hours found accused in the British Legion Club in Grantham (R18) and returned him to headquarters to'the Commanding Officer, Colonel Oehmann, who, according to witness, informed accused in substance,
"Captain, you are under arrest and confined to quarters. You will go to your room ***" (R20).
Lieutenant Simpson testified the Colonel said to accused in substance, "Captain, you are under arrest", "Captain, go to your room", and he said, "Lieutenant, see that the Captain goes to his room", and witness went upstairs to see that the Captain went to his room (R22).
This occurred about llslO in the morning. Between 5*30 and 5*45 p.m,, the same day, 20 July 1943, witness and Major John E. Eilertson, Second Engineer District, Eastern Base Section Headquarters, were again ordered to look for accused and found him at the Angel Hotel in Grantham and brought him back to headquarters (R23), Accused "went back to his room" (R25)»	Pros,Ex,1,	a certificate from the morning report kept by witness
in the course of his official duties was identified by him and received in evidence without objection by defense (R23), It reads as follows:
HEADQUARTERS, 2ND DISTRICT OFFICE CF THE DISTRICT COMMANDER
EBS, SOS, ET0USA, AP0 517
24 July 1943 '
CONFIDENTIAL
CERTIFICATE
Twentieth, July 1943 - Capt. Royston T. Booker fr dy to arrest in qtr’s.
I hereby certify that the above remark is a true copy from morning report of July 20, 1943,
Headquarters 2nd District E.B.S., S.O.S.
Thomas A, Simpson THOMAS A. SIMPSON 2nd Lt• C,E,
Adm. Officer
There had been no change in the status of accused other than this extract from duty to arrest in quarters for 20 July 1943 (R23)* No written notice was given accused of his being put in arrest in quarters (R24) because (testimony of Colonel Oehmann), "I didn’t have time to. He v?as gone again" (R43).
Major Eilertson testified that on a day the date of which he does not recall, he accompanied Lieutenant Simpson on a trip after accused (R26) whom they found in a vacant room in the Angel Hotel at Grantham, Accused was located through a telephone message received by witness to the effect that accused "desired some underwear" (R27). Witness further testified,
CONFIDENTIAL
when asked his opinion of accused "as an engineer with business experience and quality", that "I found he did his work well. He seemed to have the situation well in handi He exercised good engineering judgement and he had what I would consider quite a tough job **** which he performed in a satisfactory manner" (R28).
Colonel Oehmann, called as a witness by the court, testified that when accused was brought into his office by Lieutenant Simpson and Sergeant Broadfoot on 20 July 1943, he was "in a very disheveled condition, clothing dirty, he had his trench coat on, his cap on the side of his head and 7,-as very bleary-eyed. *** In my opinion he was drunk" (R4l)»
4* Testimony for the accused consists of his own statement covering his engineering background and his explanation of the offenses with which he is charged. He testified he left headquarters about 5:00 or 5:30 on the evening of 19 July 1943 and walked the four miles to Grantham and then walked around Grantham for 30 minutes or more. Feeling nervous and a little exhausted he went into the Angel tap room and ordered a beer and then thinking may be a double shot of whiskey would straighten him out a little and make him sleep, drank the whiskey and walked back to headquarters. He had eaten no supper nor drank anything prior to going to the pub. He denied being drunk. '(Then he got back he couldn't sleep and was nervous. He got up about four o'clock the morning of 20 July 1943 and walked into town and around town till probably nine or ten o' clock.
He had nothing to drink that morning and went into the British Legion Headquarters to sit dovm (R3l). He asked a man cleaning up for a 'phone but was told he couldn't use it so asked that headquarters be called for a conveyance as he was too tired to walk. About ten o'clock Lieutenant Simpson and Sergeant Broadfoot came and he rode back to headquarters and reported to Colonel Oehmann's office. When the Colonel asked why he was not on the job, accused told him his car had broken down and was being repaired, that he was waiting for it and it was supposed to be ready for him at most any time. The Colonel said, "Captain, you better go to your room", "At that time I didn't know I was under any arrest. If he had said it, I didn't hear it. I never dreamed I was under arrest". His first knowledge of it was when Lkjor Eilertson and Lieutenant Simpson came to the Angel Hotel about 5:00 o'clock that afternoon and told him he had broken arrest. He had no duties around headquarters and his only means of getting to his construction jobs was his own transportation then at the British repair depot at Huntington about two miles away (R32).
Captain Tarmo V/aara, Company "C", 332nd Engineer Regiment, lived with accused. He denied he had ever seen accused drunk and testified that accused was as excellent construction engineer (R38).
A stipulation was entered into in-open court between the trial judge advocate and the defense counsel to the effect that if First Lieutenant A. lays, Corps of Engineers, Adjutant of the American Section,
- 4 -
A CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(329)
School of Engineers, Ripon, Yorkshire, England, were present at the trial, he would testify substantially as follows* That he has known accused ^ since he came on duty, 17 January 194-3 until about 15	194-3; that during
his period of personal acquaintance with accused which was at Camp Claiborne, Louisiana and Camp Kilmer, New Jersey, he never knew of accused drinking excessively while on duty or being drunk on duty and that in his opinion accused's character is far above reproach (R39)»
5* The testimony herein is in conflict. Sergeant Broadfoot states accused acted drunk in his opinion was drunk on the evening of 19 July 1943 • Colonel Oehmann describes accused as bleary-eyed, dirty, disheveled and drunk when brought before him on the morning of 20 July 1943* Accused denied being drunk.
Sergeant Broadfoot testified that Colonel Oehmann informed accused on the morning of 20 July 1943 that he was under arrest and confined to quarters. .Lieutenant Simpson testified that the Colonel informed accused "You are unuer arrest, go to your room". The Colonel himself testified he said, "You will consider yourself under arrest and will report to your room". Accused insists the Colonel said, "Captain, you better go to your room". There is no question but that accused did leave his quarters afterwards.
The court was the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses and the weight and sufficiency of the evidence. It was its duty to resolve the conflicts in evidence. There was substantial, competent evidence to support the court's findings that the accused was guilty of the offenses charged in the specification of both Charge II and of Charge III. Under such circumstances the findings of the court will not be disturbed by the Board of Review (CM ETO 492, Lewis; CM ET0 106, Orbon: CM ETO 774, Cooper. Jr.). The Board of Review cannot weigh the evidence nor judge the credibility of witnesses (H?D letter to C.G., ETOISA 28 April 1943 A.G.321.4 (4-26-43) GB-S, MNE/euh - 2 B - 393 Pentagon).	*
6.	Attached to the record of trial is a request for clemency for the accused, signed by defense counsel and eight of the nine members of the court, recommending that the execution of the dismissal be suspended for one year.
7.	Accused is now A5 year, ct age. He to. co*iSsioned a captain direct from civil life and began service 17 January 1943,
8.	The court ns legally constituted and Had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the
rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient +n	+»,.
findings of guilty and the sent— -	/.	ent	to	suPPort	th®
CONFIDENTIAL
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 50 SEP 1943 TO* Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Captain ROYSTON T. BOOKER (0-921950), Corps of Engineers, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board
of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the . findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved* Under the provisions of Article of War 50g-, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and thi3 indorsement. The file number jof the record in this office is ETO 799# For convenience of reference-rt5le&bernlace that number in brackets at the end of the order (ETO 799)*
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMQ 21, ETO, 6 Oct 1943)
CONFIDENTIAL
#(331)
