#(119)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 559.
UNITED STATES )
J
)
Private RAYMOND (NMI) MONSALVE	)
(39161683), Battery "D", 25th	)
Coast Artillery (HD).	)
17 JUL 1943
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES IN ICELAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Fenton Street Camp, Iceland, on 23-26 May 19A3.	Sentence: Dishonorable
discharge, total forfeitures' and' confinement at hard labor for life. Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING "by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits 'this, its holding, ,to the Assistant Judge Advocate General -with the European Theater of 'Operations.
2,	Accused was tried upon the following charge and specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	92nd	Article	of War.
Specification:	In that Private Raymond Monsalve, . .
Battery "D", 25th Coast Artillery (HD), did, at d 4 U J 4 U Camp Saurbaer, Iceland, on‘or about 3 April 19A3, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation kill one John LI. Donnelly, Lieutenant Colonel,
U.S. Army, a human being, by shooting him with a rifle, thereby inflicting a wound in and upon his body from which the said John M, Donnelly,
Lieutenant Colonel, U.S.Army, died on or about 3 April, 19A3.
Accused pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the charge and specification. No evidence of any previous conviction was introduced.
He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General of the United States Army Forces in Iceland, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for
. - 1 -
•*hyl
559
(119)
(120)	UMIFI0ENT1AL
action under Article of War 48 and Article of War 50g- as amended. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, commuted the sentence to dishonorable discharge from the service, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or'to become due and confinement at hard labor for the term of the accused's natural life.
As thus commuted, he confirmed the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record for examination under AW
3,	On 2 April 1943, accused was on duty as a cook'd helper (R.7,22) at Camp Saurbaer, Iceland. His current shift of duty as such extended from noon 2 April 1943 to noon 3 April 1943. He lived with the mess Sergeant, mess orderlies aM the other cooks together with Sergeant Daniel Birnbaum attached to the same unit, in hut number nine (R.59,70, 169,175). Around 10:45 P.M. 2 April 1943 he was drinking rum in the cooks' hut (R,57,70) from which place, with First Class Private Lloyd P. Liaggard, Private Thomas 0. Liparote and Birnbaum,‘he went to the supply hut about 11:00 P.K. (R.58,67,70) and sat there drinking with them (R.71) until about midnight when the rum was wholly consumed (R.58,66). Accused informed the group that he thought he knew where there was "some more to drink"'and left the supply hut immediately before midnight (R.71) with Liparote. The latter went to his hut (R.67). Accused, Who was unarmed (R.63) walked' towards his hut which was also in the direction of the officers' quarters (R.67) some 200 yards away (R.63). The weather was bad; the wind was blowing and it was raining (R.9,10,16,27,74)• Accused was wearing a parka belonging to Llaggard who had loaned it to him when accused left the supply hut (R.58). Birnbaum, in anticipation of some more liquor, waited and did not leave the supply hut until some 15 or 20 minutes later (R.71). He arrived at the cooks' hut sometime between midnight and 12:15 A.M. of 3 April 1943* At that time accused was not in his bunk or in the hut. Birnbaum went to bed and did not see accused again until about 9:30 the next morning (R.72). When accused left the supply hut he was "jovial, boisterous, but in possession of his faculties" (R.74). He returned later to the supply hut, time unknown, and delivered the parka to Llaggard, who was in bed and had been asleep.
At that time accused' wanted to borrow money from Llaggard who told him it was too late and.that hie would give it to him in' the morning (R.58,59). Haggard did not see a gun in accused's possession on either of his visits (R.63).	•
Lieutenant Colonel John LI. Donnelly, on 2 April 1943, was commander of Camp Saurbaer (R.7,20) and lived in the officers' quarters with First Lieutenant James D. Pepper. Supply and Battery Officer of Battery "D", 25th Coast Artillery (HD>, and Captain Herbert W. Purick, Commanding Officer of Battery "D" of the same unit. The officers' quarters were located in a British Hissen hut, having a length of about 36 feet. It was divided into five small rooms with an open room in the center and a hallway leading from this open room to the outside.
Both the front rooms were vacant. Captain Purick and Lieutenant Pepper had adjoining rooms in the rear. Colonel Donnelly's quarters took up
- 2 -
- » rN^ < p .4
(121)
-'UMY^i
half of the center of the hut (R.8). His room was about 12 feet wide (R.ll). His cot stood opposite the door, against the wall which was the outside wall of the hut and its head was against a partition which separated Colonel Donnelly's room from a vacant front room. There was a wardrobe made of celotex against the inside wall opposite the cot and about two feet to the right of the doorway upon entering (R.ll,23,2/+). The stove was in the open center room of the hut opposite the Colonel's room (R.9)• Lieutenant Pepper last saw the Colonel alive at 11s 15 P.M, 2 April 1943, when he (the Lieutenant) went to his room to write a letter. At about 11:45 P.M. the Colonel called out that he was going to bed. At approximately midnight Lieutenant Pepper finished his letter, put on his raincoat and left to inspect the guard. He returned at approximately 12:35 A.II. (R.10,l6) took off his wet clothes, turned out his light and went to bed. He arose at 7:20 the next morning, 3 April ‘1943, without seeing or hearing anything unusual (R.16). As he came out of his room the Colonel's door was open and he could see across the foot of the Colonel's bed a sheet of celotex, later found to be the door of the clo'thes' closet (R.26), at about a 45 degree angle to the floor (R.10).
Private Earl A. Harold, the fireman whose duty it was to tend the stove3 during the night, entered the hut at 11:15 P.M. 2 April and at 3:15 A.M. and 5:30 A.M, 3 April, to stoke the fire. He noticed nothing unusual. The fire was not out in the morning (R.17,188,189).
Lieutenant Pepper testified that .45 pistols and 'rifles were issued to the battery and identified a WDA AGO Form #30 initialed by him (marked as Prosecution's Exhibit l) as the Quartermaster Property Account,
Form No.33, for Raymond Llonsalve, showing among other articles a M-l U.S.
Army rifle, caliber .30. number 1795H (marked Prosecution's Exhibit 2) as issued to accused (R.13). He also testified that whiskey or liquor was kept in the officers' quarters; that Privates Reel and Dean and the night fireman, Private Harrell (Harold) were the only persons other than the officers, who had authority or permission to be in the officers' quarters (R.13), and that the two orderlies, Reel and Dean, knew whiskey or liquor was kept there (R.14).
Captain Purick after talking to Colonel Donnelly at approximately 11:00 P.M. (R.23) reported for duty at the Battery Commander's station at the Gun Battery (R.25) returning to his quarters about 8 o'clock on the morning of 3 April where he met lieutenant Pepper who was preparing to leave for Reykjavik (R.15,25). He happened to‘look through the open door (R.27) of the Colonel's room at the time. The blackout curtains were down but he did notice a piece of celotex lying at an angle against the outer wall. Lieutenant Pepper suggested that the window might have leaked and the celotex was placed in the position observed to keep the water from the bed (R.25). Captain Purick went to*breakfast and then to the battery office, returning to the officers' quarters at approximately 11:00 A.M. 3 April'. He went into Colonel Donnelly's room to awaken him for dinner (R.28), and found him lying in bed (R.24), on his left side in a sleeping position. Colonel Donnelly was dead. There was some blood around his nose and mouth which had spilled on to the bed clothing and also on the floor (R.25). He immediately tried to locate a doctor and
24 (P19
(122)
called First Lieutenant VJenke (R.26), Medical Corps (R.28) who arrived about noon. Lieutenant Henke testified that he saw Colonel Donnelly dead in his quarters at damp Saurbaer. The body was ‘lying on the cot in a relaxed position with the covers pulled up to its neck. His left arm was beneath the pillow. His face was visible from the doorway. Blood was caked around the nose and mouth but there was no evidence of the body being disturbed either before or after death (R.35). There was a pool of blood at the head of the bed, some of which had splattered on an exploded .30 caliber (R.42) shell lying there (R.29), which shell he picked up and gave to Major Richerson (R.32). Lieutenant Wenke had the body moved out into the light in the open center room and found that death was caused by a bullet passing through-the head. The body was taken to the 208th General Hospital (R.33). In the opinion of Lieutenant Wenke, Colonel Donnelly had been dead 12 hours or less when he first saw him (R.38).
Major John L. Richerson, -495th Coast Artillery Battalion, Camp Castle Hill, Iceland,‘was present in the officers' quarters with Lieutenant Wenke and saw Colonel Donnelly's body at noon 3 April 194-3 (R.4.0). He searched the rooms of Colonel Donnelly, Captain Purick and Lieutenant Pepper but found no guns which had been recently fired (R.4l). Major Richerson found a bullet hole in the celotex wall at the head of the cot in a position that would have been behind Colonel Donnelly's head when he was lying in bed. He also discovered another bullet hole in a corrugated iron exterior wall of the vacant room adjoining Colonel Donnelly's room. Lieutenant Colonel Jesse P. Green, Provost Marshal, later put his finger through the hole in the exterior wall and dug around in the dirt. He recovered a rather badly*mangled spent ,30 caliber bullet (R.4-3*77 j Pros.Ex.4-).	He also put a ramrod through the bullet
holes and estimated the angle and direction of the bullet (R.77). Colonel Green tested by firing'into a,box and recovering the bullets, all the rifles in the battery and by comparison of the bullets and shells determined that Prosecution's Exhibit 2, being rifle No.179511 issued to accused, was the rifle that had fired the evidence bullet (R.80). The evidence bullet (Pros.Ex.4-)* the evidence' cartridge case (Pros.Ex.3), the test bullets and cartridge cases (Eros.Ex.6a,b;,c,d* and 7a,b,c,d) and rifle were turned over to Major King, Military Police. Corps, Provost Marshal General's Office of the European Theater of Operations, who delivered them in Washington D.C. to Marion E. 'Williams, firearms expert of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to be tested in the laboratory o‘f the Federal Bureau of Investigation (R.86). Mr. Williams testified ‘that the tests showed that the bullet found by Colonel Green in the soil (Pros.Ex.4-) was a tracer bullet fired from the rifle of accused (R.95).
Colonel Donnelly's pocket book containing 2150 kronur and three one dollar bills, was found, with other articles, in his clothes which lay on the floor beside his bed (R.44-).
1 The autopsy (Pros.Ex. 5a to 5i) made by Captain Richard C. Taylor, Medical Corps, 208th General Hospital, showed the death of Colonel Donnelly to have been caused by a gunshot bullet wound through the head, entering to the right of the nose and leaving through the back of the
“ 4 “
CONFIDENTIAL
(123)
head (R.49,50)* causing almost immediate death (R.56). In the opinion of the Captain, death probably occurred when the victim ms asleep (R.53) and sometime -between midnight of 2-3 April and six o’clock of the morning of 3 April (R.55).
On 19 April, Major King secured from accused, who had been sent to the 208th-General Hospital for psychopathic observation (R*132), a written signed statement. Prosecution’s Exhibit 10, which reads as follows:
to
£T>
P
1
B
P
I
<D
STATEMENT -OF RAYMOND MONSALVE ASN 39161683 MADE AT THE 208th MEDICAL HOSPITAL.	19	April	1943.
Present:	RAYMOND MONSALVE
Arthur M* O'Comior, Chief Specialist USNR. William J. JCing, Major Cmp Lloyd A. Craig, T/5G, ASN 37132301 By Major King.
You are advised that I desire to take a statement from you regarding certain actions taken by you on or about the night of April 2nd and thq early morning of April 3, 1943. You have the right t° refuse to make such a statement and I further warn you that such statement when completed will constitute government evidence and may be used by the U.S. Arny in any way it sees fit. Do you understand?
Answer by Raymond Monsalve:	Yes.
Understanding, do you wish to makq a statement?
A. Yes.
Duly sworn by Major King.
Q. Please identify yourself.
A. My name is Raymond Monsalve. ASN 39161683...
I was drafted into the U.S. Army the 22 July 1941 from Los Angeles, California, I have been in Iceland since 11 May 194^*2 R*M.
Q. Did you on the night of April 2, 1943 shoot with an Ml Army issue rifle Lt. Colonel Donnelly at Camp . Saurbaer?
A. Yes.
Q. Please explain the circumstances.
A. I started drinking-beer about 7 P.M. that evening and I had about 5 beer3. I finished the beer about 8 P.M. and at about 10 o’clock I bought a bottle of bootleg rum from Corporal Pennington in my outfit.
I paid him 50 kronur. I had given him the money early in the-evening in the kitchen and he put it under my pillow of my bed where I got it at 10 o’clock. I took it to the supply room with Private Liparote.
I think he paid Pennington some money also; Anyway he was with me when I got the stuff from under the pillow. First we sat on my bed and had a couple of drinks then Private Maggard came in and he took a drink then we all went to the supply room. We all
CONFIDENTIAL
240949	559
SIGNED:	Raymond	Monsalve
(124)
.-,;i DENTIAL
had a drink there and Sergeant Burnhaum cams in and he had a drink. Y/e sipped on the bottle till around midnight when it was finished then liparote and I went to my hut to see if we (end of page l) could get more liquor, from Corp. Pennington; Y/e seen him and talked to him and he said he didn’t have any more so we went back up to the supply room and joined the other two. We sat around for a while and Sergeant Burnbaum went off to.bed. I borrowed Pvt. Haggard's parka and went to the latrine. Then I went to-ray hut.- Everybody was asleep by.the time I got there. Then I went and got my rifle from the rack and went looking for whiskey. First I went to the officers' mess. The door was open and I v/ent in. I couldn't find-anything. Then I went over to the officers' sleeping quarters. The door-was open and I vent in. There was a door open on the right hand side and I went in that room. I didn't think anyone was in the room, I got inside the room and-1 was searching around to see if I could find anything and I knocked the door off the cupboard which is on the right as you go in. The colonel woke- up. The noise he made sitting up frightened me. I was carrying my rifle on my left hip; I shoot with my left hand. I swung the gun around and it went off as I turned. I didn't mean to kill him; I didn't mean to shoot him.
I liked the colonel myself and everybody else did.
I wouldn't want to hurt him at all. After the gun vrent off I got more excited and I don't remember just what I did, but I ran to my hut. I put the gun in the rack. Then I gave Haggard his parka back.
I asked him- for some money; I don't know why I did that, I was so nervous that I don't know what I was doing half the time after the gun went off. Then I went into bed and lay down. I didn't sleep well that night,- and the next morning about ten o'clock I cleaned my rifle.
Q. Have you made previous statements about this?
A. Yes, to Col. Green about 3 times; to Captain Larkin about- 3 times.
Q. Were the statements to them true?
A. No, sir.
Q. Is this statement you are making now true?
A, Yes.
Q. When you went after the gun that evening was it-loaded?
A. No but I loaded it when I got it.
Q. Why did you load the gun.
A.- I don't know.
Q. How many rounds of ammunition are you supposed to have?
A. 80 rounds.
- 6 -
p/v • r\ p r
U ji* ri./r
v y i
i I
CONFIDENTIAL
Q. Did you replace the round you fired?
A, No, but the clip I had in the gun when I fired it came from another belt which was hanging in the kitchen*
Q. What did you do with that clip?
A* I don’t know but I think I threw it away;
I don’t remember where, (epd of page 2),
Q* Did you put the gun back in the rack after you fired it?
A. Yes,
Q. Was anyone assisting you in attempting to steal the whiskey?
A. No.
Q. Is there anything further you wish to say?
A. No, except that I had no intention to hurt
nobody. It was an accident. I didn’t have any help. No one has been told about this up to now. I’ve been frightened and sorry because of what I did.
Q, Have you been threatened or have you been given any promises for making this statement?
A. No. I am making it of my own free will. I want to get it off my chest,
Q. Have you understood all my questions?
A. Yes.
I now ask you to read this statement consisting of three pages, and as an indication that it is true and correct, sign your name below.
Statement-read in its entirety by:
(125)
(t)	RAYMOND LiONSALVE
(s)	Raymond Honsalve
(Signature).
WITNESSES: ■ William J. King
WILLIAM J. KING, MAJOR CMP(t,
Arthur M. O’Connor ARTHUR M. O’CONNOR,
Chief Specialist USNR. 7085236.
I certify that the foregoing is a verbatim transcription of the statement of Raymond Monsalve taken by me direct on typewriter as indicated.
EXHIBIT No. ”10'*
Prosecution's Exhibit No. 10
Page 3.	240949
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
559
(126)
An additional statement was made by the accused on 20 April 1943, (Prosecution's Exhibit ll) as follows:
*
Statement co/rtinued 15 hours, 20 April 1943, at the same location and with the same individuals present,
Raymond Monsalve again duly sworn by Major King,
By Major King to Raymond Monsalve
You have made a statement in which you confessed that you shot and killed Colonel Donnelly on 2 April 1943* I warn you that this statement is a confession of your guilt of that offense; that you are not bound to make a confession or statement in the matter, and that if you do make a statement or if you adhere to and ratify this statement it may be used as evidence against you in any trial 'for the commission of the offense of killing Colonel Donnelly, A, I understand.
Do you wish to repudiate this statement? A, No,
Do you, after again reading this statement, wish to ratify and confirm this statement?
(Statement read in its entirety by Raymond Monsalve)
A, Yes,
Do you wish to make any change or additions to this statement?
A, On page 1 it shows "I have been in Iceland since 11 May, 1943" that should be 11 May, 1942,
Q, jwill you make the change on the original statement?
A, Yes, (Change made and initialed)
Q. Is there anything further you wish to say?
A. No. '
Q, Have you understood all the questions I asked you to-day,
A. Yes,
I now asl? you to read the portion of this statement made to-day, and as an indication that it is true and correct, sign your name below,
(Portion of this statement made to-day read in its entirety by:
RAYMOND MOHSALVE (t)
Raymond Monsalve (s;
Signature,
WITNESSES:
William J. King__________(s)
WILLIAM J. KING, MAJOR, CMP. (t)
Arthur M. ‘O'Connor._____(s)
ARTHUR 15. O'CONNOR.	(t)
Chief Specialist, USNR., 7085236.
- 8 -
- :	"	i-AlTJ	It
rnriOENTIM
(127)
I certify that the foregoing is a true verbatim transcription of statement of Raymond Monsalve taken by me direct on typewriter as indicated,
Lloyd A. Craig _______________
LLOYD A. CRAIG T/5G
37132301	(t)
PROSECUTION'S EXHIBIT No. 11.
EXHIBIT No. 11.
Page 4.
4.	The Defense objected to admission in evidence of'Prosecution's Exhibits 10 and 11 on the ground that sake were obtained by means of threats and compulsion. The issue thereby created was tried by the court upon voir dire. In partial support of his contention the accused submitted the following unsworn statement, designated Defense Exhibit Bs
Iky 25.1943
Witnessed by Terrill E. Price, Col G S C. 920 AM
Camp Fenton Street.
Thomas P. Dart. Major 50th jSig Bn.
I was in that particular room with Howerton and was called out and.went into the adjoining room, a little room like the one I was in. And Major King and the sailor, was in there. He give me his rank and told he was a former man from F.B.I. or the Dept of justice whiehever or whatever it is. Then he started asking me what had happened there at my camp and I told him I didn't know. He kept on telling me that I knew plenty about it and he kept on pulling my night shirt, and-feelling and he just kept on asking me questions. And then he told me they had ways of making a man talk. And then he said that a few slaps over the mouth would make me talk. And then I told him I didn't know anything about it. He said the doctors and nurses in there if he tried anything wouldn't stand for anything out of the way. And he said that he could take me out some place where -it was nice and quiets Where nobody would bother, emd-i-kept-eileafc-fer-a-while, and a few slaps over the mouth and knock a few of my teeth out would make me talk $nd that's .about all he said. And then I* told him I would make a statement And then he would say How did it happen Did it happen this way? And he would write it down and pass it to the stenographer.
Naturally I was afraid when I made the statement,
RAYMOND MO^Lj^
559
- 9 • CONFIDENTIAL
EXHIBIT No. "B"
(128)
i’i
i:
L.
NTIAL
In his defense in chief, after his rights had been carefully explained to him by the court (R.200) the accused submitted an unsworn statement, designated Defense Exhibit D, as follows:
Written Statement: i	Witnessed	by	on	May	26th 194-3.	10:00 A.M. (l)
Thomas P. Dart, Major 50th Sig Bn,
Carroll M, Mershon, 1st Lieut, Field Artillery,
Terrill E, Price. Col, G.S.C.
Statement of Private Lion salve. After we stopped drinking the rum I felt sick in the stomach and I borrowed Haggards parka and then me and Liparote left. And after we left he went direct to his hut, and I continued going to the latrine. After I got to the latrine I started to throw up and I must have stayed there 15 minutes or maybe a little more.
And then I went to my hut and I went to bed. And I was awakened about five in the. morning by the mess sergeant, and being about half asleep and with a hangover me and the mess sergeant had a little argument. Then I went to the mess, hall to my regular duty, (end of first page)
Witnessed by on May 26th 194-3 at 1000 A.M. (2)
Thomas P, Dart. Major 50th Sig Bn Col. Terrill E. Price Col G. S. C,
Carroll M. Mershon, 1st Lt. Field, Artillery
Besides this statement here I don’t think I need say more than the statement already before the court about the Major King and the sailor and the stenographer they had and myself on the 19th and 20th of April, On the 20th I felt very nervous and upset because I have never been asked any questions before in my life like that I ha9§/£Sen in no trouble. They didn't make any threats next day but I did not know whether they could.
Defense
Exhibit No. "D".
An attempt was made by the defense to show that Technician 5th Grade John R. Pennington, Battery "D", 25th Coast Artillery (HD), the other cook, was more likely to be the guilty party. He was seen going from the kitchen to the cooks' hut which he shared with others, with a gas mask and carrying a rifle, at 6:30 to 7:00 the morning of 3 April (R.177). He appeared to have been drinking (R.173).	The rifles in the
cooks’ hut were kept in an unlocked rack (R.169) and it was customary to
GOMF'iuF.11
(129)
carry rifles back and forth and orders issued required them to do so (R.2O4.). A clip of M-l ammunition loaded with 8 bullets the first being a tracer bullet was missing from the rifle rack in the dining room the night of 3 April 1943 (R.190-191). Pennington was a heavy drinker ahd at times had smoked marihuana (R.175>178,192).	Since the death of
Colonel Donnelly he had become depressed, he was listless, morose and kept to himself. He seemed to be losing his mind (R.172,173,175,176,178,183, 185,186).' On’ 14 April 1943 oh his own request he visited the Provost Marshal, Lieut. Colonel Green, and asked if he was in any way implicated in the shooting of Colonel Donnelly (R.lSl) and seemed to be under a heavy strain of some kind. As a result of this he (Pennington) vaa placed in the hospital for observation (R.182) where he remained at the time of trial (R.198). Duripg the week prior to trial while Captain Gerald*J. Whalen, Chaplain Corps,,was visiting ’Ward 21 of 208th General Hospital, Pennihgton approached him in tears and begged Captain Whalen to "do something to save an innocent man", intimating that he (Pennington) was the one who had done the killing* (R.199).
5.	On Aprij. 14th Lieutenant Colonel Green in questioning accused "told him that it may be hard for him to tell us but it would probably help him more than it would hurt him". Accused, however, made no statement connecting himself with the death of Lieutenant Colonel Donnelly until his statements of the 19-20 April. ’Without these statements, it may well have been found impossible to prove definitely who was the killer.
A confession made to a military superior will ordinarily be regarded as requiring further inquiry into the circumstances, particularly where the confession is made by an enlisted man (1928 M.C.M., par.114a, p.116). If accused had told his story on 14 April, its voluntary nature might well have been questioned. Five days later accused did confess to a different officer under circumstances into which the court diligently and fully inquired. Accused, in an unsworn statement, claimed to have been both threatened and assaulted at the time of the confession. An exhaustive examination by the court, the trial judge advocate and defense counsel of those present on the occasions of obtaining accused's statements fails utterly to substantiate such claim.
6.	"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being
with malice1 aforethought (LI.C.M., 1928, par. 148a, p.162; 29 G.J., sec.59, p.1033).
The evidence herein clearly shows Lieutenant Colonel Donnelly to have been killed unlawfully, without justification or excuse. The only question is whether the offense committed was murder or manslaughter.
The important element of murder, to-wit: "malice aforethought" has been analyzed by the authorities as follows:
"In its popular sense the term 'malice' conveys the meaning of hatred, ill-will, or hostility toward another. In its legal sense, however, as it is employed in the description of murder, it does not of necessity import ill-will towards the individual injured, but signifies rather a
240949	559
-11 -
f!D M l I n C M'TI 9 »
(130)
i.'jWENflAL
general malignant recklessness of.the lives and safety of others, or a condition-of the mind which shows a heart regardless of social duty and fatally beht on mischief? in other words, a malicious killing is where the act is done without legal justification, excuse, pr extenuation and malice has been frequently, substantially so defined as consisting of the intentional doing of a wrongful act towards another without legal justification or excuse. *#*”((29 C.J., (sec.6l)2, p.1084). (Cf. CM ETO 292, Mickles; CM ETO 255/
Cobb; CM ETO 122. Green; CM ETO 438, Smith)).
The distinction’ betweerf murder and lnanslaughter is stated by Wharton to be ’’the absence of deliberation and malice aforethought".
(1 Wharton*s Criminal Law, sec.149, p.165).
"Malice aforethought may exist when the act is unpremeditated. It may mean any one or more of the following states of mind preceding or coexisting with the act or omission by which death is caused; An intention to cause the death of, or grievious (sic) bodily harm to, any person, whether such person is the person actually killed or not (except when death is inflicted in the heat of a sudden passion, caused by adequate provocation); knowledge that the act which causes death will probably cause the death of, or grievous bodily harm to, any person, whether -such person is the person actually killed or not, although such knowledge is accompanied by indifference whether death or grevious (sic) bodily harm is caused or not or by a wish that it may not be caused; intent to commit any felony. ***" (M.C.M., 1928, par.148a, pp.163-164).
Accused admits he loaded his rifle and "went looking for whiskey *#*". He entered the officers’ quarters and was startled while in Lieutenant Colonel Donnelly’s room, possibly by the door falling off the clothes closet, and fired his rifle as he^turned at the interruption. He "didn't mean to shoot him" (Donnelly). iiowever, he was a soldier, familiar with the use of a rifle. He knew that the use of the rifle would "probably cause the death of or grievous bodily harm to ****** someone. (M.C.M., 1928, sec.148, p.163). He had committed the offense of housebreaking with the intent to commit a further offense, the larceny of whiskey. Like the burglar, who is surprised while at work and fires his pistol in the dark to aid his escape and kills an inmate of the house, it is murder (ffinthrop's Military Law & Precedents, 1920 Reprint, p.673)•
- 12 -
: '-ipnfNTiai
7.	The possibility that another, Pennington, committed the offense is negatived by the evidence, including the fact that he was in his bed at some distance from the scene midway of the half-hour period in which the shooting apparently took place. His possession of a rifle while on duty the following morning is satisfactorily explained. It is not open to dispute that he is mentally unbalanced, being rational only at times as shown by expert testimony and by his own conduct on the witness stand, and that his worries that he might have been involved in the shooting have been expressed over the time that such unbalance has developed. The showing made is not such as to admit of a reasonable doubt of accused*s guilt.
The purpose of the evidence submitted by the defense was to establish an alibi. Insofar as it was in conflict with the prosecution's evidence an issue of fact was created. It was the duty and function of the court to resolve this conflict; to weigh and evaluate all evidence and to judge the credibility of the witnesses, both for the prosecution and defense. There is substantial competent evidence to sustain the court's finding that it was accused who shot and killed Lieutenant Colonel Donnelly at the time and place alleged in the specification, and such finding is binding on the Board of Review (CM ETO 492, Lewis: CM ETO 503, Richmond: CM ETO 531, McLurkin).
8.	During the investigation of the charge pursuant to the requirements of AW 70, the accused when interviewed by the investigating officer and at the time of examination of other witnesses, requested the presence of his counsel. The investigating officer, Major Dewey B. Gill, denied the request, explaining that the investigation was not a judicial proceeding and that accused's rights could not be impaired (R.131,132,133)* Major Gill's action was correct. (Romero v. Squier, 133 Fed (2nd) CCA,
9	Cir. 528, Bui. TJAG., April-1943, p.133).
9.	Attached to the record of trial is an appeal for clemency for accused, signed by defense counsel and assistant defense counsel, claiming discovery of new and important evidence increasing the probability of the sole guilt of Private Pennington of the murder, and the consequent complete innocence of accused. The new evidence is a spot of blood on some trousers belonging to Pennington. It is not known if it is human blood and is a fact readily attributable to any number of innocent causes,
10.	Accused was given safeguard of a fair and_impartial trial.
While it was shown by competent medical testimony that accused was of a mental age of 11 years, there was similar medical testimony to the effect that he was able to distinguish right from wrong and was able to adhere to the right and to understand the conduct of his own defense. The defense particularly disclaimed the defense of insanity and the court in closed session found him mentally competent. (R.195-196).
11.	Accused is 26-g- years of age. He was inducted into service at Los Angeles, California, on July 4, 194U
12.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and the offense. No errors injuriously affecting €he substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of murder, recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by section 4-54-, (Criminal Code, section 275) and section 567, (Criminal Code, section 330) Title 18 of the United States Code, Annotated; AW 42; War Department Directive 2-26-41, AG 253 (2-6-41) E). Return of prisoner to the United States and execution of dishonorable discharge is authorized (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUS&, 4 December 1942)•
- 14 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(133)
1st Ind,
W,	Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 1 T JUL	TO:	Commanding
General, ETOUSA, U* S. Amy, APO 887.
1.	In the case of Private RAYMOND (NMI) MONSALVE, (39161683), Battery MDM, 25th Coast Artillery (HD) attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, the sentence and the action taken by the confirming authority, which holding is hereby approved,
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 559, For convenience cf reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the ordori (ETO 559).
V
E. C• McNEXLj General, United States Arwy distant Judge Advocate General
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 15, ETO, 20 Jul 1943)

#(135)
