#(217)
Branch Office	of The Judge Advocate General	
	with the	
European	Theater of	Operations
BOARD OF REVIEW 1	- APO 871	- 8 MAR 1944
ETO 1317		i _ * *
UBIT-ED STATES	)  )	VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND
v.	)  )'	Trial1 by G.C.M., convened at Derby,
Private JAMES D. BENTLEY	)	England 20 December 1943* Sentencet
(35129010), 1945th Quarter-	*)	Dishonorable discharge (suspended).
master Truck Company Avia-	)	total forfeitures and confinement ‘at
tion, 1511th Quartermaster	)	hard labor for two years, 2912th
Truck Regiment Aviation	)	Disciplinary Training Center, APO
(Special). '	)	508, U. S. Army, 1 1
Holding of the board of review RITER, VAN EENSCHDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates •
1.	The record of trial of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater pf Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence in part. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its bolding, to the Assistant Judge^Advocate -General in charge of said Branch Office,
2,	The accused was tried upon the following.charges and specifications!
CHARGE It Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specifications In that Private James D# (i.o.)	*
Bentley, 1945th Q.M.Trk. Co., Avn., 1511th
Q.M. Trk. Regt. Avn. (Sp.), AAF Sta. 158*
AFO 635, U.S. Army, did at the corner of Nottingham Rd. and Alice Street, Derbyborough,
Derby, Derbyshire, -England, on or about 12 October, 1943» wilfully, feloniously and * unlawfully kill Mrs. Veronica Edith Andrews,
45» Keys Street, Derby, Derbyshire, England, ' by driving a motor vehicle, to wits a 2^-ton G.M.C. cargo 6 -x 6 truck, into and crushing her against the wall of a building.
- 1 -
(213)
CHARGE Hi Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification! In that ♦ * *, did at the corner of Nottingham Rd. and Alice Street, Derbyborough,
Derby, Derbyshire, England, on or about 12 October 1943* wrongfully* strike George Youngman,
19, Rockhouse Rd.,« Alvaston, Derbyshire, England, by knocking, him down with a motor vehicle, to wit:* a 2^-ton G.M.C. cargo 6x6 truck.
* » »
CHARGE Hit* Violation* of the 83rd Article of War.
Specification:	In-that-* * *,*did at Nottingham Rd.
and Alice Street, Derbyborough, Derby, Derbyshire, England, on or about 12 October 1943, through neglect, suffer a 2£-ton G.M.C. cargo 6x6 truck of a value of more than ($50.00) fifty dollars, military property belonging to the United States to be damaged by driving said truck agaipst the wall of a building.
) >
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of all charges end specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct fof two years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 5°8> D.S. Army as the place of confinement.
The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Order No,-14, Headquarters VIII Air Force Service Command, APO 633, 18 January 1944,	*
3* The evidence phowed that at about 12:10 a.m. on 12 October 1943, at Derby, Derbyshire, England, accused, while driving a’United States Army ' 2j-ton G.M.C. 6x 6 cargo truck at a speed of about 12 or 15 miles an hour, fell asleep at the wheel. During this lapse, his truck*ran to the opposite of "the normal-driving side11 of the road, proceeded over a 3 or 4 inch curb, crossed the sidewalk, and struck Mrs. Veronica Edith Andrews and her companion, Mr. George Young man, who were standing on the sidewalk. Mrs. Andrews was instantly killed, and Mr. Youngman suffered serious injuries. The truck then crashed into a brick building (R9-10,12,15-16,31), and was damaged (R24, 25). Accused was driving the leading truck of a two-truck convoy (R15).
When the accident occurred, he had been on the road about twelve consecutive hours but had stopped on three occasions during his journey, each for about an hour, to adjust his brakes. On previous days of the three-day trip he had also stopped to adjust his brakes (R46). According to his own testimony accused had noticed some of the brake fluid on his clothing and the fumes in the closed cab may have had something to do with his going to sleep (R3I-32).
2
(219)
Some evidence of the prosecution indicated that the odor of this fluid seemed to have sleep-producing propensities and may have contained "a certain amount of ether" (R34)» There was no evidence of any previous lapses of attention of accused on this trip. The night previous to the fatal trip he had remained up until "wayafter 12 o'clock" with a girl (R32), but did not start the trip unti.1 noon the next day (R14).
>	.	»	1	•	-
4.	The Specification of Charge I alleges that accused "did *** wilfully, feloniously and unlawfully kill* Mrs. Andrews. The allegation is obviously based on Form 88 (Appendix 4, Forms for Charges and Specifications) appearing on page 249 *of Manual for Courts-Martial, I928. The theory of the prosecution's evidence was that accused operated the motor vehicle in such grossly negligent and reckless manner as to constitute the .resultant homicide involuntary manslaughter. The defense contended that the allegations of the specification-charged accused with the crime of voluntary manslaughter and that the proof of negligent homicide did not support the charge.
The legal validity-of the defense's claim turns .upon the meaning df the word "wilfully" appearing in. the specification.
Former R.S. 5341 in pertinent part provided:	-	.
"Every person who * * • unlawfully and willfully, but without malice, strikes, stabs, wounds, or shoots at or otherwise injures another, of which striking, stabbing, wounding, shooting, or other injury such other person dies, is guilty of the crime of manslaughter." ,
In construing this statute it has been said:
"Voluntary manslaughter, as defined by the common-law writers, is an intentional killing in hot blood, without malice; and •involuntary manslaughter, according to the old writers, is where death results unintentionally, so far as the defendant is concerned, from an unlawful act on hip part, not amounting to felony, or f^om a lawful act negligently performed.' * • *.
But the” distinction above adverted to be-tweeh voluntary and involuntary manslaughter i8 now obsolete at the common law, and becomes here immaterial. Any unlawful and willful killing of a human being without malice is manslaughter, and, thus defined, it includes a negligent killing which is also willful." (United States v. Meagher,
37 Fed. 875, 880).
■	•	-	3	-
(220)
The words "willful" and '"willfully"' were accorded the following treatment in an instruction to the jury, which on appeal was not questioned*
" The word 'willful* as used in connection with the charge of murder, such as that which is preferred in this indictment against these defendants, means an intentional killing, and not an accidental killing. It means an act which results in death that is intentionally done, and one that is not accidentally done. ffow, there is a great difference between that which is in the law accidental and that which is intentional. The law fastens intent to every act that is not an accident, Every act that produces death that is outside of the definition of the • word 'accident* is intentional in the law, whether it grows out of a specific design to take life or whether it grows out of gross carelessness, or whether it arises from a condition, of mind that prompts the possessor of that mind to be engaged in some other wrongful or criminal act, and in the execution of it a life is taken. That which is an accident in the law is something that occurs after the . exercise of the care that the law requires to be exercised to prevent its occurrence.
When a man exercises the amount of legal care exacted by law, and something occurs beyond that, that is not his willful act.
The law recognizes that he does not do it willfully. But when he does an act which naturally.or reasonably or probably, from its nature, and the way it is done, produces a certain result, that is held to.be an intentional result, because the act as done in that way is intentional; and whenever the act is done, and it is an act that may naturally or probably produce a certain result, whenever the act is done intentionally the result is intentional," (United States v, Boyd, 45 Fed. 851,855} 142 U.S,
450} 35 L. Ed, 1077).
The principal case defining the word "willfully" so used in the above quoted statute is Roberts v. United States,12£ Fed.(5th Cir.) 897, 127 Fed.8l8, Cert.denied 193 U.S. 673* 48L»Ed. 842 which cites the Meagher case with approval. In the Roberts case the trial court instructed
the juryi
(221)
•The term 'willfully' here means done wrong- , fully, with evil intent. It means any act which a person of reasonable knowledge and ability must know to be contrary to duty, and while the act must be done with evil design and knowingly, as herein stated, still a killing which takes place under circumstances showing a reckless disregard for the life of another, and the reckless and negligent use of means reasonably calculated to take the life of another - such _ killing would be willfully done, as the term is herein defined." (p.903). ,
The Circuit Court of Appeals in approving this instruction said:
•We understand thi3 to define 'willfully' as acting voluntarily with evil intent or design, and that, it may be shown by acting with reckless disregard of the life of , another, coupled with the use of means reasonably calculated to take such life."
(P.903).
4	«- »
The foregoing principle has been confirmed by a leading text writer (1 Wharton's Criminal Law - 12th Ed., sec.427, p.666). It therefore . appears that by the use of the TOrd "willfully", the allegations of the specification become sufficiently broad to permit proof of either voluntary or involuntary manslaughter. An accused is thereby given notice that the prosecution's proof may take either one direction of the other or possibly both, as occurred in the Meagher, Boyd and Roberts cases cited above. The Board of Review therefore concludes that -the court committed no error in denying the .defense's motion or in overruling its objection based on this particular legal issue. *
* 5» With respect to the finding of accused's guilt of Charge I and • its Specification the basic question for consideration is whether there is substantial evidence that accused was criminally negligent in the operation of the truck at the time and place alleged with the resultant death of Mrs. Andrews. In order to sustain a conviction of involuntary manslaughter at common law the homicide must be occasioned by "criminal", or "gross", or "culpable" negligence. These descriptive words, are sometimes used singly. At other times all three are used conjunctively. The terminology indicates, and the courts are practically unanimous in holding, that this type of negligence is of a degree higher than that required to sustain civil liability for negligence. They have declared that, criminal, gross or culpable negligence must be of such a character as to show an utter disregard for life or limb, or a total disregard for the consequences, ;
- q -
(222)
or conduct indicating such willful disregard for the rights of others as to show a wantoa recklessness as to the life and limb of other persons (State v. Murphy, 324 Mo. I83, 23 S.W.(-2d) 13& (l929)j Dunville v. State, , 188 Ind. 373, 123 N*E« 689(1919)). Culpability for death of a human being caused “by the grossly negligent act of the driver of a motor vehicle , is subject to the same measure of responsibility for death which is caused by the grossly negligent handling .of other instrumentalities. The test ' is the samej Was the accused so negligent as to show an utter indifference to the ‘consequences and did his criminally negligent act proximately result in the death of the person alleged? The test is not what a reasonably prudent man would or would not do but.whether.his negligence is sufficiently gross to come within the descriptive phrases set out above. In CM ETO 393, Caton and likes and CM ETO li|14 Elia the Board of Review-affirmed the principle that the degree of negligence required to establish a charge of involuntary manslaughter under the 93r<i Article of .War must possess such culpability as to be denominated "gross* or "culpable" or exhibit' a "willful wanton and reekless" disregard of human life, and limb. In any event the negligence must be greater than that which suffices in civil tort actions.
I	-
Due to the paucity of decisions in criminal courts involving situations analogous to the facts of this case, it is necessary and expedient to refer to the civil recovery.cases interpreting automobile "guest" statiies. These Statutes usually contain one or more, sometimes all three, of the words "wilful, wanton and reckless"t and have been interpreted by courts in much the same manner as "criminal", "gross" and "culpable" negligence in the criminal cases involving charges of assault, and battery and manslaughter. It has been said that these words in "guest" statutes "apply to the type of negligence which borders on intent, and has been called quasi-intent* (Prosser,. Torts, p.26l). Wilful, wanton and reckless conduct!
■have been grouped together as an aggravated form of negligence, differing' in quality rather than in degree from ordinary lack of . care. Since recklessness often is inferred from any highly dangerous conduct, there is seldom any clear distinction between 'wanton' and 'gross' negligence. It is clear, however, that such aggravated negligence must be more than any mistake resulting from inexperience, excitement, or confusion, and more than mere thoughtlessness or inadvertence, or simple inattention, even to the extent of falling asleep at the wheel of an automsbile, except in those cases where ,a reasonable man in the actor's place would have .been aware of great danger, and would / have taken corresponding precautions"(Prosser Torts, pp.262-263).'
6
And at another point the author says*
(223)
. '	*	'■'Wantonness' or 'recklessness* * • *
means that the actor has intentionally -	>	1
- done an act which was of an unreasonable character, in disregard of a risk known to him or so obvious that he must be taken to have been aware of it, which was ’so great as to make it highly prob-• able that h^rm would follow. It is usually accompanied by a conscious indifference to the consequences, but not necessarily so, so long as the great * danger would be apparent to a reasonable man* (Prosser, Torts, p.26l).
It has been held that:a driver of an automobile overcome by sleep is not guilty of gross negligence or willful and wanton misconduct under *guest"statutes unless he continues to drive in reckless disregard of premonitory symptoms (Boos v. Sauer, 266 Mich. 230, 253 N.W. 278 (1934){ Ferkins v« Roberts, 272 Mich* 545, 2o2 N.W, 305 (1935)i Wismer ▼. Man, 289 Mich. 38, 286 N.W, 149	(1939)f Richards	v. Parks,	19	Tenn.
App. 615, 93 S.W, (2d) 639 (1935)).	However, if	he	has	had some
preliminary warning such as drowsiness, pr continued yawning, or there is evidence that accused had fallen	asleep before	on	the	trip,	or	that
he had not had sufficient sleep the	night before,	or	had	had a	strenuous
day or night and had not had sufficient sleep, these, and perhaps other symptoms which ought to have put him on his guard are evidence of negligence which are persuasive when Coupled with proof of hi3 nodding or sleeping at the wheel (See illustrative cases in 138 A.L.R. at pp.1390-1392)* The fact that he'is shown'to-have nodded or gone to sleep at the wheel raises an inference that be was guilty of the negligence required under these statutes and it is for him to come forward with proof that, under the circumstances,'will rebut that natural inference. This proposition is well stated in Bushnell v. Bushnell, I03 Conn. 5®3» 131 A. 432, 44 A.L.R. 785 (1925), as follows:
•In an ordinary case, one cannot go to sleep while- driving an automobile without having relaxed the vigilance which the law requires, without-having been- negligent. It lies within his own control 1 to keep awake-, or cease from driving.
And so the mere fact of his going to sleep while driving is a proper basis for an inference of negligence sufficient to make out a prima facie case, and sufficient for a recovery, if no circumstances tending to excuse or justify his conduct are proven. * * * If such circumstances
- 7 -
(224)
are claimed- to have been proven, it then, becomes a question of fact whether or co,t the driver was negligent; and, in deter-, mining that issue, all the relevant circumstances are to be considered, including the fact that ordinarily sleep does not come upon one without warning of its approach." (p*791 of 44 A.L.R.) (For -cases in accord, see cases cited in annotation,
138 A.L.R. I388, at.p.1389 et seq.)
The same case further states*
>
■It is probably true that one cannot ordinarily ‘fix with certainty upon the precise moment when he lapses into unconsciousness, but it is not true that ordinarily sleep comes unheralded. Purves Stewart, in his 'Diagnosis of Nervous Diseases,' 3d ed., p.423, thus describes the; chief phenomena of ordinary healthy- • sleep* 'Firstly, there is diminution and then loss of conscious recognition of ordinary stimuli, such as would ordinarily attract our attention, whether these stimuli be derived from the outer world or from within the sleeper's own organism.
'There is also, as-consciousness is becoming blunted, a characteristic; and indescribable-sense of ★ell-being4 ' Voluntary movements become languid and ultimately cease and the -muscles of the limbs relax* Meanwhile there develops double ptosis or drooping of the eyelids; the pupils contract; the respiratory movements become slower and deeper, the pulse is*slowed,-the cutaneous vessels dilate to a slight.extent and the general temperature of the body falls, whilst many processes of metabolism, such as those of digestion and of certain secretions are retarded'■ (Bushnell v. Bushnell, supra, 44 A*L,R. at p,791).
«
While there is no evidence of outward manifestations of drowsiness or sleep by the accused,who was riding alone, the court was justified in utilizing its common sense and knowledge-of the process involved in the approach of somnolence (Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, par* 78a» p*62). , The commop experience pf map that oncoming sleep has its own special warnings is fortified by the scientific investigation of Purves Stewart, a part of which is quoted in the above opiniop.
-8-
(225)
The accused admitted that he fell asleep (R21)* He had stopped to adjust his brakes on the two or three days preceding the day of the accident but evidence is lacking as to whether he noticed anything peculiar (in the sense that it'was sleep producing) about the odor of the brake liquid at these times. Nor does the evidence establish the time when the liquid was first noticed on' his clothes-, - Under these circumstances it was for the court to decide- whether ttere was •, gross or criminal negligence sufficient to prove beyon^^oubt the guilt of the accused. In Blood v, AdaiAs, 269 Mass, 480, 169 N.E, 412 (I929), another automobile "guest" statute case, the accused testified that he must have fallen asleep, or probably fell asleep, and did not remember just what happended preceding the accident. Said the court, in part:
■Voluntarily to, drive an automobile on a public street at any time of day or night with eyes closed or to yield to sleep while operating such kind of dangerous machine as is an automobile, on a public highway is to be guilty of a degree of negligence exceeding <	lack	of	ordinary care and is a manifesta-
tion of recklessness which may be found J	by	judge	or•jury to be gross negligence
within any reasonable definition of that - phrase, ■ • -
Once there was submitted in the instant-case competent proof of a substantia^, nature that accused was asleep at the steering wheel-of the-truck at the time pf the accident the burden was cast upon him to go forward with the evidence and prove that there were no forewarnings of.the approach of sleep. The burden of proving accused's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt never shifted from the prosecution,'but the burden of producing evidence that he was overcome by sleep without premonitory warnings or symptoms - the "burden of explanation" - passed to accused, (CM ETO 527 Astrella), The issue as to whether accused was guilty of ■ gross negligence in continuing, under the circumstances, to drive the vehicle wa3 one of fact to be decided by- the court on all of the evidence in the-case,	•	(
or truck
An automobile /is dangerous in the hands of a man fully awake and exercising all of his faculties, . In the hands of one drowsy or, asleep, with control partially or entirely gone, the possibilities of injury it may cause to person and property are unlimited. Every drivar knows that. However, it is not determined herein that- a motor vehicle is a dangerous instrumentality. While the test of guilt of involuntary' manslaughter is always one of culpable or gross negligence, the court in the instant case wa3 entitled to infer accused's gross negligence from the fact that he fell asleep, at the wheel. There is absent any exculpatory evidence of the nature indicated. The proof is therefore ample to support the charge of involuntary manslaughter.
- 9 -
(226)
6. The evidence supporting Charge II and its Specification which alleges accused "did * * * wrongfully' strike George Youngman * * * by knocking him down with a motor vehicle" is the same evidence as supports the charge of the negligent killing of Li'S. Andrews* It need not be determined at this time whether such charge may be supported by proof of simple or ordinary evidence or requires, proof of the greater degree of evidence denominated "gross", "culpable" or "criminal" negligence inasmuch as the evidence was sufficient to sustain a finding of the greater degree‘of negligence in this case.as has been above demonstrated* The findings of guilty of Charge II and*its Specification are satisfactorily sustained by the evidence*
• 7* The evidence fully sustains the finding of accused's guilt of the offense under the 83rd Article of War (Charge III and Specification)-that he did "through neglect, suffer * * * military property belonging to the United States to be damaged" (CM ETO 393 Caton and Fikes. supra)-.
8* The charge sheet shows that the accused is 24 years six months of age and that he was inducted at "Fort Thomas Xy" 25 August I941 for the duration of the war plus*six months. The accused had no,prior service*
9* The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses* No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial* The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record/of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty apd the sentence* The sentence is within the applicable maximum limits of punishment (Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, par.104^, PP»98.99i100).- Confinement in a disciplinary training center in the United Kingdom is authorized (Circular Kb, 72, ETOUSA, par, 8£, 9 September 1943)*
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)
JUdge Advocate
in-
#(227)
