#(157)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW •	•
ETO 1262
UNITED STATES)
)
v.	)
)
Private First Class	JOHN S.	)
MOULTON (35404.951),	Detach-	)
ment A, 152nd Quartermaster	)
Bakery Company. •	•	)
)
2 4 FEB 1944 '
SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M^, convened at Plymstock, De vo9^r!fcngland, 4- December 1943. Sentences Dishonorable discharge," total forfeitures and * confinement at har, labor for ten years. The United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
I
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above hah been examined by the Board of Review.
2,	Accused-was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	93rd Article of War,
Specification:	In	that	Private	1st	Class	John	S.
Moulton, Detachment A 152 Quartermaster Bakery Company did, at Dunstan Woods, Plymstock, Devon,
England, on or about 3 November 1943, with intent to commit a felony, viz, rape, commit "	an	assault upon Jeanette Morris, age 12 years,
of Burro-Waye, Church Road, Plymstock, Devon,
England, by wilfully and feloniously assault-' ing the said Jeanette Morris by picking her up and throwing her to the ground and striking her in the face with his fist,
CHARGE II: Violation of the 61st Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	1st	Class John S.
Moulton, Detachment A, 152 Quartermaster Bakery Company did, without proper leave, absent himself from his place of duty at The Firs,
Plymstock, Devon, from about 1430 hours 3 November 1943 to about 1600 hours 3 November 1943, 1
1 -
(158)
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of both charges and specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for a period of 15 years.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, reduced the period of confinement to ten years, designated the United States Penitentiary, "Lewisbury". Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50^.
3.	The only question requiring consideration arises from the follow-circumstances:
After practically all of the evidence had been submitted to the court, a trip was made to the premises. The members of the court, the personnel of the prosecution, the accused and his counsel ‘and assistant counsel, the reporter and three witnesses visited the terrain upon which the various incidents brought out upon the trial of the case were alleged to have happened. At various points along their route, the president and members of the court, the trial judge advocate and the defense counsel interrogated the three witnesses. This examination was quite detailed and searching and not of the sort which is anticipated in such a procedure.
This Board, in no uncertain language, has recently condemned this practice, and has said:	‘
" The practice of 'viewing the premises' by a military court is authorized procedure (AW 31). However, the practice of receiving testimony and examining witnesses at a 'view of the premises' is almost universally condemned and usually is reversible error (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, p.833, sec.410, note 49; 16 C.J.,
■ p.827, sec.2092, note 9; 23 C.J.S., p.334, sec.986, note 52). A 'view of the premises' properly conducted and not coupled . with the examination of witnesses ‘may ‘in many instances be extremely helpful and informatory to the court. When in addition, the court either permits or directs an examination of a witness at the scene of the event it is indulging in a highly dangerous practice, which is not approved or commended." (CM ETO 611, Porter, par.6,
p.6).
The fact that there are no material differences in the testimony offered in court and at the premises saves this case, as it did the Porter case, from being reversible error. Eliminating entirely the narrative elicited at the scene of the various events, there still remains in the record substantial and competent evidence to sustain the findings of the court. The
2
substantial rights of the accused were not affected by this error of procedure (CM ETO 611, Porter).
4.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 33 years of age and that he was inducted 27 May 1942 at Columbus, Ohio for the duration of the war plus six months. He had no prior service*
5.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that/the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence (CM ETO 78, Watts: CM ETO 489, Rhinehart and Fallucco: CM ETO 492, Lewis: CM ETO 595, Sipes: CM ETO 996, Burkhart!.
6.	Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of assault with intent to rape (AW 42; Manual for Courts-Mart.' '1 1928, par.9Qa, pp.80-81; 35 Stat. 1143; 18 U.S.C., sec.455). The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement is authorized (WD, Cir. #291, sec.V 3a and b, 10 November 1943).
TO: Commanding
2	4 FFB 1Q4.4.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. *	'L
Officer, Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 519.
1.	in the case of Private First Class JOHN S. MOULTON (35404951), Detachment A, 152nd Quartermaster Bakery Company, attention is invited to the foregoing holding^ by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5CH-r you now have authority to order execution of the sentence*
2.	Attention is invited to the location of the United States Penitentiary at Lewisburg. Pennsylvania, erroneously named as Lewlsburv in the action of the reviewing authority. This should be correctly stated in the published general court-martial order.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1262. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1262).
f AS. C. McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(161)
