#(11)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
eto m,
UNITED STATES v.
Privates ROBERT (NMI) EHINEHARI (7087457), and RAIMOND F. FALLUCC0 (33134947J, both of 326th Ordnance MTS Company (Q).
2	6 ' UN 943
) SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES ) OF SUPPU, EUROPEAN THEATER OF ) OPERATIONS.
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) Depot G-25, APO 518, Ashchurch,
) Gloucestershire, England, A May ) 1943. Sentence: Each dishonorable ) discharge, total forfeitures and ) confinement at hard labor for five ) years. Federal Reformatory,
) Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused were tried upon the following Charge and Specification*
CHARGE* Violation of the 93rd Article bf War, Specification* In that Private Robert Rhine hart and Private Raymond F. Fallucco, all of 326th Ordnance MTS Company (Q), acting jointly and in pursuance of a common intent did, at or near Ashton Cross, Gloucestershire, England, on or about 2230 hours, 5 April 1943, with intent to commit a felony, viz., rape, commit an assault upon Miss Mary Ellen Elizabeth Dunn, by wilfully and feloniously assaulting her person and endeavoring to have carnal knowledge of the said Miss Mary Ellen Elizabeth Dunn by force auu against her will.
- 1
':gfnt:al
239535
489
Each pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. Each was sentenced to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for a period of five years, to be dishonorably discharged from the service and to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due. The reviewing authority approved the sentence as to each accused, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement but directed the execution of the sentence to be withheld and forwarded the record for action under Article of War 50%»
3.	Marv Ellen Elizabeth Dunn of Cheltenham, a factory worker, testified that she with two friends, Edna L. Mason and Miss Parker, were cycling on the night of 5 April 1943 (R.6). They arrived at the "Queen’s Head” public house at Ashton Cross, where witness had one drink at about 9:30 P.M. (R.10). While standing outside of the public house soon after 10:00 P.M., they were accosted by three soldiers who asked if the "Queen’s Head" were open and were told "Not tonight".
The three girls then mounted their bicycles, Miss Parker going on ahead. Witness and Miss Mason were riding side by side when someone, she thinks deliberately, collided with her bicycle and she was knocked off. Miss Mason was frightened and rode away (R.6) going for help (R.7). Witness was knocked down by two soldiers who grabbed her (R.9) and "dragged (her) along the road" and "pulled (her) on to the floor".
She called for help from Miss Mason. "They tried to prevent me by putting their hands over my mouth. I was dragged from one side of the road to the other. They dragged me to the ditch and then I stopped crying for help". Witness identified accused as being the two soldiers. While she "was still struggling a fellow told me he would knock me out if I did not stop. I still cried for help". She was covered with mud and was lying on her back in a ditch* One of the soldiers had his hand over her mouth, and the other was on top of her. Fallucco was holding his hand over her mouth. His clothes were unfastened and he had his person in his hand. One of them, she doesn’t know which, attempted to undress her (R.ll). They tore her clothes. Witness knew the meaning of "rape" and testified the "two fellows" attempted it by getting on top of her and starting to tear off her clothes and her* under-clothing (R.8). She does not remember whether they asked if they could have intercourse with her but while she was struggling with them she asked them to let her go. While she was screaming another soldier came on the scene, flashed a torch at them and asked what was going on. Her two assailants then released her and disappeared. Witness was taken to the military police at the guardroom where she identified accused (R.10).
First Sergeant James A. Parsons. 326th Ordnance MTS Company (Q), identified accused as soldiers in the United States Army and members of his Company (R.l).
2
(13)
r;',
I i IIIL
Technical Sergeant Carl D. Lawson. 204-th Signal Depot Company, testified that he saw both of accused at about 9:15 P.M., on the night of 5 April 194-3 at "The Crown Inn", the village public house at Kemmerton, approximately two miles from Ashton Cross. They were boisterous and noisy. Witness asked one of them if they knew they were in improper uniform and was told to mind his own business. He asked the proprietress not to serve them, ‘phoned the MP‘s and then left.
They had been drinking (R.l),
Private Henrv T. Drodwoll. 80th Ordnance Company (Depot), testified that he was riding his bicycle slowly along the road about 2000 yards from the "Sheen's Head" and by the bridge at about 11:10 P.M., on the night of 5 April 194-3 when he heard three screams in succession originating some 30 or 4-0 yards away. He shouted "What goes on there" and saw a man and a woman crawling up on the road. The man had on a greenish colored suit but witness could not say he wa3 a sdldier. The man disappeared through the bush and the woman, who was Miss Dunn, told witness she had been attacked by soldiers. She was covered with mud and was bruised. Witness went along with her toward the guardhouse and met Lt. Col. Walden (R.2-3).
Edna L. Mason of Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, testified that she was cycling with the Misses Dunn and Parker on the night of 5 April 194-3, and at about 10:00 o’clock they were at Ashton Cross. After a stop they mounted their bicycles. Miss 'Parker whs ahead and witness and Miss Dunn were riding side by side when a bicycle collided with Miss Dunn and she fell off. Witness rode on and soldier, Spisak, riding a bicycle, came along side her. Accompanied by him witness rode on about 50 yards and stopped. She heard repeated screams but afraid she might have the same trouble, she joined Miss Parker who had preceded her in order to secure help. They traveled a full quarter of an hour and when they returned Miss Dunn was already at the Camp. The men must have been hiding in the hedge and came cut behind them. She could not identify any of them (R.5).
4-. Accused were warned of their rights and each elected to make unsworn statements (R.ll). The statement of Fallucco made when directed by defense counsel to "tell the Court what happened on the evening of April 5, 1943 > from the time you rode your bicycle in the company of one or more soldiers to the Queen's Head, hear Ashton Cross" was:
"All three of us 9,^p%j4nf^^02^eens Head and saw three girls talking/there ana somebody said 'Let's wait for the girls'. We waited at the corner. Two girls went by. The last one was Mary Dunn. I said 'Hello, Mary Dunn'. She said nothing. I le(f)t her go. I heard a bike hit another one. I heard Miss Dunn scream out and found her in the middle of the road. I said
£39535	489
(H)
’What are you screaming after?'. She said she had hurt her ankle and hand. I said 'That is too bad'. I sat her down and she lay with her dress up. I spoke about having intercourse with her. Then Pvt Rhinehart came up. Pvt Rhinehart said he would have intercourse with her. She said all right but not here. We went down the road. I do not know whether she tripped. She grabbed me by the jacket. I tried to keep her from falling but we both fell together in the ditch. I saw a light coming towards me. Mary began screaming again, I went across the road.
After Miss Dunn and the other guy left I went to my bike and found out that the chain was off so had to push my bike to the Camp. I went to bed. Lt. Hoskins came in and said 'What happened'. They got Pvt Rhinehart and me. I came up in front of girl and said 'Can you identify me?*
She said 'No, I have never seen you in my life'.
The following day I went up to the Provost Marshall, In the afternoon they brought me back and Miss Dunn was there. Capt. Cherry said 'Do you recognize these boys?'. She said 'Sure* right off the bat. Lt. Hoskins said I had a bit of dirt on my forehead. I think that is how she recognized me the next day." (R.12).
The statement made by Rhinehart after similar directions by the defense counsel, was:
"At Ashton Cross the three of us stopped and went across the road. We saw some girls and asked if the pub was open. They said ’No'. We sat down beside the road. The girls came riding around.
I	went down the road. I heard one girl call.
The one I was riding with went off on her bicycle.
I	heard a collision. Pvt Fallucco was talking with a girl, and was asking to have intercourse with her. She said 'Yes', but asked that we should go off the road. We fell in a ditch and then saw a light coming up the road and a man appeared.
The girl went off with him. I came back to camp and was told the GD wanted to see me. I went to the Guardhouse and was questioned in one of Capt. Cherry's offices. The girl said 'Do you recognize me?'". (R.12).
- A -
*:hL
GOfofiDENTiAL
(15)
5.	On rebuttal Captain Thomas 3. Cherry, Provost Marshal, testified that he obtained statements at his office on 6 April 1943 from each of accused. Witness identified his signatures and that of each accused who signed the statements in his presence (R.13). The statements were obtained voluntarily and not under pressure, nor were there any promises, intimidations or threats. They were given as the result of questioning. Each accused in open court was asked by the President of the Court, "Before making these statements were you warned of your rights", and each answered, "Yes, sir". The objection of defense counsel to their being received in evidence was overruled and they were received as prosecution Exhibits B and C (R.13,14)*
These exhibits are attached to the record and are as follows*
"	statement
Pvt Raymond Fallucco, 33134947
326th Ord. Motor Trans. Supply Co. (Q)
I,	Raymond Fallucco, having been warned of my rights, of my own free will and accord, do hereby stipulates
I	was asked by Spisak and Rhinehart to go bike riding at about 1900 hours, $ April 1943* I told them I wasn’t allowed to go anyplace in dirty fatigues. They said there were no HP's where we were going, so I went. We rode to a Pub in a small town where we had some beer.
We only stayed here for a short time and rode on to another Pub, I think the Railway Inn.
We had a couple more beers at this Pub and a Tech. Sargeant said we were not in proper uniform and he was going to call the MP's. I told him we weren't bothering anybody, reaching out to try to stop him. My field Jacket was dirty so I got a fatigue jacket from Rhinehart, putting it on over my field jacket. We left the Railway Inn, and I fell off my bike several times. We rode to the Queens Head. At the Queens' Head We saw some girls with 3ome soldiers, on the outside. We decided to wait for these girls on the Cheltenham Road. They rode toward us on their bikes after leaving the soldiers and I spoke to one of the girls but she did not reply. She was pushing her bike. I grabbed her, since she was behind the other girls. She called to one of the other girls fob help. They ran away on their bikes.
Rhinehart came up to where I was and grabbed the girl. Together, we threw her in the ditch.
I saw a bicycle coming, so I turned her loose.
5
489
CONFIDENTIAL
The soldier hollered to turn the girl loose.
I 1scrambed' until the soldier and girl had left. I later returned for my bicycle and returned to camp and went to bed, where I was when the GD came after me. It was my Intention to ...... her. If the soldier hadn't arrived
on the scene when he did I would have tried to have forced Intercourse with her. Before the soldier came up on the scene, I was holding the girl for Rhinehart, who was on top of her, but the girl wouldn't open up her legs. I was holding her mouth so she couldn't scream. But Rhinehart didn't actually commit the act.
I know what perjury is and am willing to swear to the above statement which I have read and believe to be true to the best of my knowledge.
(Signed) Raymond Fallucco Raymond Fallucco Pvt., 326th Ord MTS Co (Q)
WITNESS:
Thos. S. Cherry THOMAS S. CHERRY,
Capt., Ord. Dept.
S.	W. Hoskins
S.	W. HOSKINS,
1st Lt., Ord. Dept.
Exhibit B.	".
"	STATE?,ENT
Pvt. Robert Rhinehart, 7087457 326th Ord MTS Co. (Q)
I,	Pvt Robert Rhinehart, after having been warned of my rights, of my own will and accord, freely stipulate:
'About 1900 hours or 1930 hours, Spisak, Fallucco and I left camp on our bicycles, and road past Northway Camp to Bredon. We stopped at a pub by the name of Crown Inn where we drank some beer We stayed here for only 5 or 10 minutes. We stopped at another pub in Bredon for more beer.
We circled around the town theft rode on the next small village.
We went into a pub to have a beer where we had a little trouble with a Tech Sgt about being in
(17)
fatigue clothes. He told us he was going to call the MP's. We followed him outside and told him he’d better not call the MP's. He walked on down the road with his girl* He went back in the pub and had a few more drinks.
We then went back to Bredon to a pub just across the railraod tracks and drank beer there till closing time.
We left this pub and I remember I fell of(f) by(my) bike four or five times. We rode from Bredon to the Queen's Head. We asked a soldier, in the company of a girl, if the pub was open.
They told us the pub was closed.
We started back to camp and saw three girls, with bicycles, talking to some soldiers. We decided to round the corner and wait for these girls, on the Cheltenham road. As they road by, we got on our bikes and rode along with them.
I was riding in front with one of the girls. •
We were riding along together when one of the girls called. This girl I was riding with told me to go back and see about my mate. She then rode well ahead of me, and I attempted to catch up with her. But I couldn't catch her and turned off the back road to camp.
When I got to camp I went to bed and the MP's came for me at about 2300 hours.
I know what perjury is, and am willing to swear to the above statement which I have read and believe to be true to the best of my knowledge.
Signed Robert Rhinehart Robert Rhinehart.
WITNESSES:
Thos. S. Cherry THOMAS S. CHERRY,
Capt., Ord. Dept.,
Pvt. Paul Galloway Pvt Paul Galloway,
Hq & Hq Co, 1st 0MB,
EXHIBIT C.
- 7 -
CJ •
P
489
(18)
OONFinnjTiAL
"SECOND STATEMENT OF Pvt. Robert Rhlnehart, 70874-57,
I,	Pvt. Robert Rhinehart, after having been warned of my rights, of my own will and accord, freely stipulate:
There are a few corrections I would like to make In my first statement. This statement Is true and correct up until the time we were waiting for the girls.
As the girls rode by, I started riding down the road with one and I heard the other girl who was left behind with Fallucco call. The girl, I was riding with told me to go back and see about my mate. She ran off and left me, so I turned around and went back. On the way back I heard her screaming. I had Intentions of fflAVyig him leave the girl alone, but when I arrived she was on her back alongside the road, with her legs spread a little. So I decided then to have Intercourse with her, while Fallucco held her. I did not have intercourse with her because of a light I saw coming down the road. I left when I saw the light coming, and later went back for my bicycle, and met Fallucco, and we rode back to camp.
I have read the above statement and believe same to be true to the best of my knowledge.
(Signed) Robert Rhlnehart Robert Rhlnehart
WITNESS:
Thos. S. Cherry THOMAS S. CHERRT,
Capt,, Qrd. Dept.,
S.	W. Hoskins
S.	W. HOSKINS,
1st Lt. Qrd.,
EXHIBIT C.
6.	Assault with Intent to commit rape "is an attempt to commit rape In which the overt act amounts to an assault upon the woman intended to be ravished. *** The intent to have carnal knowledge of the woman assaulted by force and without her consent must exist and concur with the assault. In other words, the man must Intend to overcome any resistance by force, actual or constructive, and penetrate the woman* s person. Any less Intent will not suffice. Once an assault with intent to commit rape is made it is no defense that the man voluntarily desisted". (M.C.U., par.149 2, p.179).	"***	Intention
is a fact which cannot be positively known to other persons, no one can
(19)
testify directly concerning it and the matter must be an inference which the jury must find from the established facts. *■**" (l Wharton's Cr. Ev., sec.79, p.96).
One accused, intentionally collided with and knocked Hiss Dunn from her bicycle, dragged her to the road side and acting in unison with the other accused, bruised and mistreated her and attempted to undress her in the effort to compel her to have sexual relations with them. By her resistance and the timely intervention of Private Drodwell, accused were defeated in their purpose. Every element of the crime of rape was shown except penetration. The victim's testimony is amply corroborated. In the opinion of the Board of Review the record is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of the court that accused were each guilty of the Charge and Specification herein (CM ETO 78, Watts; CM ETO 492, Lewis).
7.	(a) - On the second and third unnumbered pages of the record, being completed printed forms, it is assumed that all references to the "accused" where printed in the singular is intended to refer to each of the accused herein.
(b)	- On page seven of the record of trial, the trial judge advocate states: "Subject to objection by the defense, I offer in evidence these articles of clothing, identified by the witness, Miss Dunn, as belonging to her and indicating by their appearance the struggle which i3 alleged to have taken place". The defense counsel stated he had "no objection" and "the same was then received in evidence and marked prosecution Exhibit A. Permission was granted to withdraw the same at the end of the trial". Attached to the record is a sheet labelled "Exhibit A" and listing, "Ladies undergarment, toraj Outer coat with mud stains; Pair high-heel shoes with mud; Ladies waist soiled with mud and buttons torn". Nowhere are these articles identified by anyone nor in any way described except as above. They were improperly admitted in evidence but any claim of prejudice to accused by such action was waived by the defense counsel,
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of each of accused and of the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.
9.	Accused, Fallucco, is 27 years of age and accused, Rhinehart, is 22 years of age. Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 Sept 1942, as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 Dec 1942, a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when the accused is sentenced to confinement for three years or more or for an offense which rbi-dor*. his retention in the service undesirable. Attempt to
9 ” Z51)335
489
commit rape is such an offense* The approved sentence is five years in the case of each accused. Both conditions of the order are therefore met, A general prisoner may be returned to the United States for serving a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of attempted rape (USCA,, Title 18, sec,4-55, p»337), The designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chlllicothe, Ohio, is correct.
Judge Advocate
- 10 -
(21)
1st Ind.
V R (if 11 iqA 1
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. * °	TO:	Commanding
Officer, Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA.
1,	In the case of Privates ROBERT RHINEHART (7087457) and RAIMOI© F. FALEOCCO (33134947), both of 326th Ordnance MTS Company (Q>, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence as to each, which holding is hereby approved. Under
the provisions of Article of War 50^, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentences.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this
office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 489. For convenience of reference please place, that number in brackets at the end of the order:	(ETO 489).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
1 Incl:
Holding of Board of Review.

#(23)
