#(309)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater.of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW.
ETO 768.
UNITED STATES )
/■	%
v.	)
Private JOHAN (NMI) DIXON,	j
(39847354), Company "D»,	)
517 Port Battalion, TC,	j
)
)
' SFP IF-3
/
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Barry, South Wales, 13 August 1943. Sentence:	Dishonorable	discharge,
total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for eight years. Confinement: Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
' HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW,
RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1* The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2. Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 64th Article of War.
Specification 1. In that Pvt Johan Dixon, Company "D« 517 Port Bn TC, did at at Sea Mills Camp,
Shirehampton, England on or about 17 July 1943, strike Lt, George H, Martin Jr, his superior officer, who was then in the execution of Ms office,, in the stomach with Ms fist.
Specification 2, In that Pvt Johan Dixon, Company »»!}»« 517 Port Bn TC, did at Sea Mills Camp,
Shirehampton, England, on or about 17 July 1943 draw a weapon, to wit, a knife, cook’s, against . Lt George H. Martin Jr, Ms superior officer, who was then in the execution of Ms office.
1
CHARGE II* Violation of the 63rd Article of War.
Specification:	In that Pvt Johan Dixon, Company
"D« 517 Port Bn TC, did at Sea Mills Camp,
Shirehampton, England, on or about 17 July 1943. behave himself with disrespect toward Lt, George H. Martin Jr, his superior officer, by saying* wYou white son-of-a-bitch," or words to that effect.
He pleaded not guilty to Specification 1, Charge I, guilty to Specification 2, Charge I and Charge I, and guilty to Charge II and its Specification. He was found guilty of all charges and specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for eight years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50^.
3.	First Lieutenant George H. Martin Jr., 517 Port Battalion T.C., testified for the prosecution that on 17 July 1943 he was officer of the day at Sea Fills Camp (Shirehampton, England) (R5). About 2245 hours he passed a kitchen and heard considerable noise as though pots and pans were being thrown about. After calling for the sergeant of the guard, he' entered the kitchen and noticed pots and pans "littered all around the floor". Accused was standing at a table, eating (R5-6,9). There were two knives in front of him. The officer told accused he was not authorized to be in the kitchen and to come with him whereupon accused picked up a nine-inch kitchen knife, said "Don’t come at me", and drew back the knife. Martin told accused to drop the knife and upon the latter’s refusal to do so, the officer got out his pistol, inserted a cartridge and told accused he would shoot if he threw the knife. Accused said he would go to bed when he finished eating. A Sergeant Phelan entered the kitchen and accused again "came back over his shoulder with the knife in his hand in a manner of throwing the knife" at Phelan and Lieutenant Martin who ducked behind a brick partition wall. The motions of accused were such as to induce the officer to believe that the knife would be thrown. He sent a soldier to guard the east end door of the kitchen and ordered Phelan outside as he did not want the latter’s life endangered.
He again tried to persuade accused to drop the knife. "There were other threatening gestures made by bringing the knife back over his shoulder". Accused said "I’m Indian" and said to Lieutenant Martin "You white son-of-a-bitch you don’t like me". "He had the point of the knife in his hand and made out as though he was going to throw it from the blade end". Pursuant to the lieutenant’s orders, a Private Cobuzzi, a friend of accused, entered in order to persuade him to leave the building. Accused talked to Cobuzzi about a minute and a half and also threatened him. As he did not want Cobuzzi to be hurt. Lieutenant Martin told him to leave.
"Private Dixon threatened us several times by laying the knife in his hand, the point of the blade toward his shoulder, and bringing his arm forward in a violent manner and led us to believe that the knife was going to be thrown. This went on for something like ten .or fifteen minutes and the guards had all left the kitchen	(R6-7,9). Finally the officer picked
up accused’s hat and coat, held them toward him and directed that he accompany him (R7). Accused wheeled around and threw the knife over his left shoulder toward a corner of the kitchen where it hit the wall (R7-9)#
The knife was not thrown at anyone (R7). As Lieutenant Martin had accused’s hat and coat the latter started toward him. He was then removed from the kitchen. Attempts were made to put accused into the truck but he was ’’hard to handle" (R7). Lieutenant Martin was talking to a guard, with his body facing accused, but with his head turned when suddenly accused hit him in the stomach.	The blow was sharp and landed just below the ribs. The
officer, who was relaxed and had not noticed any motion by accused was jolted backwards (R7-S), There were "indications” that accused had been drinking (R9)» Accused was then placed bodily into the truck and taken to the guardhouse (R7),
The testimony of Lieutenant Martin with reference to being threatened by accused with a knife was corroborated by other witnesses (RIO,13*16), Also corroborated was his testimony that he was struck in the stomach by accused. Some of the witnesses believed that the assault might possibly have been more in the nature of a push than a blow (Rll, 14,16-18), In the opinion of two witnesses, accused was intoxicated (R12,17),	,
A. The defense offered no evidence and accused elected to remain silent (R19).
5* As stated in the review of the staff judge advocate, Western Base Section, Services of Supply, ETOUSA the record iB replete with examples of grossly leading questions by the prosecution on direct examination with reference to evidence pertaining to the offense to which accused pleaded not guilty (Striking a superior officer in violation of Article of War 6A)* However, the evidence concerned was cumulative in nature as it corroborated the previous testimony of Lieutenant Martin, and there was no objection by the defense. Because of the cumulative nature of the evidence, the absence of objection by the defense and the presence of other competent evidence clearly establishing accused’s guilt of the offense alleged, the irregularity involved did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused,
6,	With reference to Specification 2, Charge I (Drawing a weapon against a superior officer in violation of Article of War 6A) and Charge II and its Specification (Behaving with disrespect toward a superior officer in violation of Article of Yfar 63), the pleas of guilty are fully supported by the evidence. The evidence also clearly sustains the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge I and of Charge I (Striking a superior officer in violation of Article of War 6A). While Lieutenant Martin was standing outside the kitchen talking with a guard, accused without warning
- 3 -
...m
suddenly hit him in the stomach* The blew was sharp and the lieutenant was jolted backwards.
Lieutenant Martin was an officer in accused's own company and was officer of the day on the evening in question. Hearing a disturbance in the kitchen at about 10:45 p*m. he entered to investigate, saw that several pots and pans had been thrown about and found accused eating at a table*
He told accused that he had no authority to be in the kitchen and told him to'accompany him. Under such circumstances the lieutenant was clearly acting in the execution of his office.
Lieutenant Martin testified that there were "indications" that accused had been drinking. In the opinion of two other witnesses he was intoxicated. There was no evidence as to the degree of intoxication or as to its effect on the ability of accused to recognize Lieutenant Martin as his superior officer. Such questions are ones of fact for the determination of the court (CM ETO 764, Copeland and Ruggles), and the Board of Review' will not disturb its findings with respect thereto*
7* The question remaining for consideration is whether the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio was properly designated as the place of confinement* One of the offenses of which accused was found guilty was drawing a weapon, to-wit a cook's knife, against his superior officer Lieutenant Martin in violation of Article of ’War 64* When ordered by Lieutenant Martin to come with him, accused picked up a knife, held it with the blade pointed toward his elbow, said "Don't come at me" and drew back the knife. The weapon was a nine-inch kitchen knife which could easily have been thrown. When Sergeant Phelan was with the officer in the kitchen, accused "came back over his shoulder with the knife in his hand in a manner of throwing the knife". Both the lieutenant and Phelan jumped behind a brick partition wall and Lieutenant Martin ordered Phelan to leave the room. When Lieutenant Martin again attempted to persuade accused to drop the knife, the latter made other threatening gestures by bringing the knife back over his shoulder. He had the point of the knife in his hand and "made out as though he were going to throw it from the blade end". This went on for about 15 minutes. Lieutenant Martin believed that the knife would be thrown.
Article of War 42 provides in part that:
»*** no person shall,under the sentence of a court-martial, be punished by confinement in a penitentiary unless an act or omission of which he is convicted is recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by some statute of the United States, of general application within the continental United States, **** and unless, also, the period of confinement authorized and adjudged by such court-martial is more than one year	(Underscoring supplied).
- 4 -
This article formerly provided that no accused could be punished by confinement in a penitentiary "unless the offense of' which he may be convicted" would subject him to such punishment by some statute or by the common law (AW 97; 1874.) (Underscoring supplied). Hence, it is seen that the word "offense" included in the earlier article was broadened to an "act or omission". It is apparent that Congress intended by the change of language involved that the "act or omission" itself governs the place of confinement and not the fact as to whether the crime is charged in its civil or military aspect.
In Ex Parte John A. Ikson (105 U.S, 696; 26 Law Ed., p.1213) accused was sentenced by a court-martial to confinement in a penitentiary for eight years for having, while on guard duty at a jail, discharged a loaded musket at a prisoner with the intent to kill him. He was tried under the then Article of War 62 (corresponding to the present Article of War 96) which provided*
"All crimes not capital, and all disorders and ■ neglects, which officers and soldiers may be guilty of, to the prejudice of good order and military discipline, though not mentioned in the foregoing Articles of War, are to be taken cognizance of by a general or a regimental, garrison or a field officers’ court-martial according to the nature and degree of the offense, and punished at the discretion of the court".
Chief Justice Waite stated in his opinion that*
"It is objected that the sentence is in excess of what the law allows. The 97th Article of War is as follows*
*No person in the military service shall, under the sentence of a court-martial, be punished by confinement in a penitentiary, unless the offense of which he may be convicted would, by some statute of the United States, or by some statute of the State, Territory or district in which such offense may be committed, or by the common law, as the same exists in such State,
Territory or district, subject such convict to such imprisonment.1
Under this Article, when the offense is one not recognized by the laws regulating civil society, there can be no punishment by confinement in a penitentiary. The same is true, when the offense, though recognized by the civil authorities, is not punishable by the civil courts in that way. But when the act charged
(314)
as 'conduct to the prejudice of good order and military discipline1 is actually a crime against society which is punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary, it seems to us clear, a court-martial is authorized to inflict that kind of punishment. The act done is a civil crime, and the trial is for that act. The proceedings are had in a court-martial because the offender is personally amenable to that .jurisdiction, and what he did was not only criminal according to the laws of the land, but prejudicial to the good order and discipline of the army to which he belonged. The 62d Article provides that the offender, when convicted, shall be punished at the discretion of the court, and the 97th Article does no more than prohibit the court from sentencing to imprisonment in a penitentiary in cases where, if the trial had been had for the v same act in the civil courts, that could not be done" (105 U.S. 700; 26 L. Ed., 1214-5).
(Underscoring supplied).
The court denied Mason's petitions for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari
As in the Mason case, the offense herein alleged was likewise charged in its military aspect. The evidence shows that the "act" committed was essentially the drawing of a knife against another with the intent to do bodily harm. Such an "act" was in fact an assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon. The words "draw a *** knife *** against" are synonymous with "assault". Such an offense violated a Federal statute and is expressly made punishable by penitentiary confinement (18 U.S.C. 455; 35 Stat. 1143)* It violates both the military and civil laws. However, as the victim was an officer the offense was charged in its most serious military aspect, which involves in time of war the possible sentence of death (AW 64), rather than in its civil aspect for which the maximum punishment includes confinement at hard labor for a period of five years.
As however, accused is tinder 31 years of age and the sentence imposed is not more than ten years, the place of confinement should be a Federal correctional institution or reformatory instead of a penitentiary. The designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio i3 correct (Uar Department letter AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941)*
8,	The charge sheet shows that accused is 24 years of age and enlisted 4 June 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months. He had no prior service.
9* The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the triad. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA,
4	December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be executed where accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Advocate
CONFIDENTIAL
let Ind.
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 2 3 SEP 1943 TOt Commanding General, Western Base Section, Services of Supply, ETOOSA, APO 515# U.S.Army.
1.	In the case of Private JOHAN ^NMI) DIXON (39S47354), Conpany *D», 517 Port Battalion, TC, attention is invited'to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved* Under the provisions of Article of War 50J-, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence*
2* The three offenses of which accused stands convicted were all charged as military offenses; they were one continuous transaction and are explained by accused’s intoxication. It is noted that 2nd Lt, Maynard A, Steinberg, the investigating officer, states that accused is a chronic alcoholic and when intoxicated has homicidal tendencies, which statement is based on one signed by Major I sham Moore, M,C* and Capt* Harold A, Mack, M.C,, of the same date* The basis for these statements does not appear* On the other hand, accused had served in the army for over a year and so far as appears, had no previous convictions. It is recommended that further investigation be made a3 to accused’s character and consideration given to suspension of the dishonorable discharge and designation of the Disciplinary Training Center #1, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England as the place of confinement in order that accused may eventually be restored to duty should his future conduct merit such action. Ih any event, on the charges of which he was convicted, it is my view that he should go to the Disciplinary Barracks instead of the Federal Reformatory*
3* When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 768, For convenience of reference please place that number, in brackets at the end of the order t (ETO 768).
SE. C. McNEUL,
Brigadier General, United States Army Assistant Judge Advocate General*
— 1 ••
CONPDENTIAL
#(317)
