#(143)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 567.
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
Technician 5th Grade HORACE	)
E. RADLCEF, (6668608),	j
Company H, 10th Infantry.	)
)
5TH INFANTRY DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Fenton Street Camp, Iceland, 1A June 19A3. Sentence:	Reduced to ranks,
confinement at hard labor for six months and forfeiture of.$35 per month for like period. Confinement: 10th Infantry Guardhouse.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1,	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said office,
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	96th	Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Technician	5th	Grade	Horace
E. Radloff, Company H, 10th Infantry, then Technician 5th Grade, Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 10th Infantry, being under standing War Department orders providing that no military personnel on duty in a foreign country may marry without the approval of the Commanding Officer of the United States Army Forces stationed therein, did, at Reykjavik, Iceland, on or about 3 April 19A3, wrongfully and willfully disobey the same by marrying one Kristin Lara Gisladottir without such approval, the same being a military offense to the prejudice of good order and military discipline.
- 1 -
5C7
Accused pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of any previous convictions was introduced*
He was sentenced to be reduced to the grade of private, to be confined at hard labor for six months and to forfeit $35.00 per month for a like period. The reviewing authority approved the sentence and designated the 10th Infantry Guardhouse as the place of confinement. The proceedings were published in General Court-Martial Orders No. 46, Headquarters, 5th Infantry Division, 19 June 19A3*
3.	The evidence shows that by War Department Circular No. 179 dated 8 June 1942 and No. 305 dated 8 September 1942, prosecution's exhibits 1 and 2, marriage of military personnel on duty in a foreign country is prohibited unless prior permission is granted by the Commanding General of the United States Forces stationed therein.	Prosecution*s	exhibits
3	and 4- are bulletins issued by Headquarters, United States Army Forces in Iceland calling the attention of military personnel on leave or furlough to Circular No. 179. Prosecution’s exhibit No, 5 is a stipulation to the effect that (l) accused never received the permission of the Commanding General of the United States Army Forces in Iceland to be married, and (2) that it has been the policy, strictly adhered to and without exceptions, of the Commanding General of such forces, not to permit any marriage by military personnel (R 9). Over the objections of defense counsel, the court admitted as evidence prosecution’s exhibit No, 6, being the deposition of Fridrik Hallgrimsson, a clergyman of the Icelandic Established Church, that he knew accused and one, Kristin Lara Gisladottir, a young Icelandic lady, and had married them on 3 April 1943 in his home at Gardastraeti 42, Reykjavik; he being legally authorized to perform marriages. Proper notice and opportunity to provide interrogatories therein were given defense counsel (R 10). The evidence further shows that accused had talked with Captain Richard F. Hanson, 10th Infantry, whom he had known for nearly nine months, of his desire to marry and that Captain Hanson after visiting the girl and telling accused that such marriage was contrary to regulations, required accused to put his request in writing. Captain Hanson then approved the request and forwarded it through military channels about the 29 or 30 March 1943 (R 13) • The letter, prosecution's Exhibit 7, was returned a day or two later disapproved by indorsement /thereon by both Battalion and Regimental commanding officers (R 14). The letter was admitted in evidence (R 16).
The defense called four witnesses only, the accused making no statement. The first defense witness, lieutenant Colonel William M. Breckinridge, 10th Infantry, testified he had known accused approximately two years during all of which time accused had been a clerk, until recently, battalion clerk of the 1st Battalion. He was a superior clerk and an excellent soldier (R 19). The other defense witnesses, First Lieutenant Malcolm R, Wimbish, commanding officer of Company H, 10th Infantry (R 20), First Lieutenant Albert C. Henry, a platoon leader of Company H (R 21), and Staff Sergeant Charles M, Yancey, acting first sergeant of Company H (R 22), gave similar testimony.
(145)
4.	Accused is charged with wrongfully and willfully disobeying standing War Department orders forbidding marriage of military personnel on duty in foreign countries without the permission of the Commanding General of the army forces there stationed. The evidence shows he had knowledge of such prohibition and made a written request to such Commanding General for permission to marry which request wa.s disapproved. By the deposition c£ the clergyman who officiated, it is also fully proved, and it is the only proof thereof, that accused went through the marriage ceremony almost immediately after the disapproval of his request. This deposition was taken in the usual, regular and authorized manner on the order of the Commanding General of the United States Army Forces in Iceland. Counsel for accused objected to the admission and use of the deposition in the trial on the grounds that it was taken at Reykjavik, Iceland about 10 miles from where the trial was had. Article of War 25 reads as follows:
"Depositions-When Admissible.- A duly authenticated deposition "taken upon reasonable notice 'to the opposite party may be read in evidence before any military court or commission in any case not capital, or in any proceeding before a court of inquiry or a military board, if such deposition be taken when ihe witness resides, is found, or is about to go beyond the State, 'Territory, or District in which the court, commission or board is ordered to sit, or beyond Hie distance of one hundred miles from the place of trial or hearing, or when it appears to the satisfaction of the court, commission, board, or appointing authority that the witness, by reason of age, sickness, bodily infirmity, imprisonment, or other reasonable cause, is unable to appear and testify in person at the place of trial or hearing: Provided. That testimony by deposition may be adduced for the defense in capital cases.'1 (tOL, 1928, p.208).
Defense counsel contended that as Mr. Hallgrimsson, whose deposition was presented, is a clergyman holding services weekly in his church and being located within 10 miles of the place of holding court, no basis for taking his deposition in lieu of his personal appearance appears. The trial judge advocate stated that the court was powerless to compel the attendance of the witness, an Icelandic subject, by subpoena and a needless and unreasonable delay would result from attempting to secure such attendance by request directed to the Icelandic government. The witness refused to appear before any United States military court and testify unless ordered by his government to do so. The trial record justifies the conclusion that no agreement exists between the governments of the United States and of Iceland for compelling the attendance of Icelandic subjects as witnesses in trials by courts-martial. If the use of the deposition is not authorized, proof of the offense fails. Accused was given an opportunity to provide crossinterrogatories to be annexed to the prosecution's direct interrogatories
(M6)
before the deposition was accomplished by the witness*
"Under appropriate constitutional provisions,
**** the legislature may be authorized to enact legislation providing for the taking of depositions of witnesses whose presence cannot be had at the trial ***" (26 C.J.S., sec*2, p,8Q8)«
"The statutes, as well as the common law, delimit the power to take testimony out of court to clearly marked emergencies and situations. So an application to take depositions may be granted, and should be granted only, where one or more of the established grounds therefor exist; where there is some reasonable ground for believing that actual necessity requires it; where the applicant acts in good faithj where the desired testimony is material or proper, or may become relevant, and is not merely cumulative or where it could not be otherwise procured, #*** where opposing parties will have the opportunity for cross-examinationj and where the matter to be proved is of such a nature that depositions may be satisfactorily substituted in place of personal examination of the witnesses. ***" (26 C.J.S., sec.9, pp.815-816; 18 C.J., sec.13, p.612).
"A commonly recognized ground for taking a deposition is that the witness does not reside within the jurisdiction of the court in which the action is to be tried. ***“ (26 C.J.S., sec.10, p,8l6; 18 C.J., ssc.lA, p.612).
"TJhere a deposition may be taken, if a witness resides out of the county in which his testimony is to be used, or more than thirty miles from the place of trial, it is sufficient if he lives without the county, although his place of residence is less than thirty miles from the place of trial." (Skidmore v. Tavlor. 29 Cal.
619; 26 C.J.S., note to sec.10, p.816).
(Underscoring supplied).
This provision allows the use of depositions of witnesses not in the jurisdiction of the court of trial, subpoenas, summong&nd other process of the court of trial to compel the attendance of witnesses being ineffective by reason thereof.
- U -
(M7)
In the present case, the clergyman, Fridrik Hallgrimsson, an Icelandic citizen, In Iceland, was as far removed from the jurisdiction of the present court, by reason of that fact, as he would have been if the court had been located in the United States and he located where he then was. In either case he was beyond the jurisdiction of the court of trial and was immune to any process issued from such court.
5.	In the opinion of the Board of Review the deposition was properly admitted by the court as evidence herein; the witness did not reside within the jurisdiction of the court; there was reasonable ground for believing that actual necessity required it; it was taken in good faith after due notice; the desired testimony was material and proper; it was relevant, was not cumulative and could not be otherwise procured and the matter to be proved, the marriage of accused, was of such a nature that depositions might be satisfactorily substituted in place of personal examination of the witness.
6.	The question of the validity of regulations, War Department Orders or orders of the Commanding General of United States Army Forces on duty
in a foreign country in time of war because they infringe upon or restrict rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution, may not be entertained. In 1823 Justice Washington in Corfield v. Coryell, L, Wash. (U.S) 371, listed as the rights protected under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution:
"The enjoyment of life and liberty with the right to acquire and possess property of every kind, and to pursue and obtain happiness and safety, subject, nevertheless, to such restraints as the Government may prescribe for the good of the whole." (Constitution of the United States of America, Revised and Annotated, 1938, p.767;
Senate Document No. 232, 74-th Cong., 2nd Sess.)
This definition has been repeatedly used by the courts since.
When accused took the oath as a soldier in the Army of the United States, he by that act, of necessity, surrendered some of the privileges and immunities belonging to him as a citizen (KcAuliffe v, Mayor of New Bedford, 29 N.E. 517).
7.	For the reasons stated the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence herein. The sentence is legal. The court was legally constituted and no error injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed at the trial.
(CONCURRING HOLDING)_________ Judge	Advocate
(148)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871*
Board of Review* EEO 567.
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Technician 5th Grade HORACE	)
E. RADLQFF, (6668608),	)
Company H, 10th Infantry.	)
. )
5TH INFANTE! DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Fenton Street Camp, Iceland, 14 June 194-3• Sentence:	Reduced to ranks,
confinement at hard labor for six months and forfeiture of $35 per month for like period. Confinement: 10th Infantry Guardhouse.
CONCURRING HOLDING by R3TER, Judge Advocate.
1. The accused is charged with the violation of the 96th Article of War in that he wrongfully and willfully disobeyed "standing War Department" orders prohibiting marriage of military personnel on duly in a foreign country without the approval of the Commanding Officer of the United States Army Forces in that country by marrying an Icelandic woman without the required approval of the Commanding General, USAFI, at Reykjavik, Iceland, on 3 April 1943. In proving the fundamental fact of the charge against accused, to-wit: the marriage of accused, the prosecution relied upon the deposition of one Fridrik Hallgrimsson of Reykjavik, a clergyman of the Icelandic (State) Established Church, who was duly authorized to perform marriage ceremonies. The deposition was taken by command of the Commanding General, USAFI, upon written interrogatories propounded by the prosecution before the officer designated in the order authorizing the deposition. The defense declined to propound crossinterrogatories. The deposition was admitted in evidence over the vigorous objection of the defense, and is attached to the record of trial and designated "Prosecution Ex.6". The only proof of the marriage of accused is the evidence of the clergyman contained in the deposition. Exclusion of the deposition will therefore result in total failure of proof of the marriage.
It appears from a statement of the trial judge advocate that Rev. Mr. Hallgrimsson lived about ten miles from the place of trial, and that the trial judge advocate had endeavored to prevail upon him to appear voluntarily in court as a witness, but that he refused unless ordered by the Icelandic government to do so. It further appears from the statement
1
567
(149)
of the trial judge advocate that an unreasonable delay would be occasioned in securing through diplomatic channels from the Icelandic government a direction to Mr. Hallgrimsson to appear as a witness. There is no formal proof in the record of the foregoing facts relative to Mr. Hallgrimsson's place of residence or of his refusal to appear as a witness, and there is also absent from the record proof that such direction from the Icelandic government would be forthcoming. The trial judge advocate, however, represented the foregoing situation to the court and the defense counsel in his argument in support of his objection definitely admits the existence of same. Under such circumstances the Board of Review is justified in accepting the facts stated by the trial judge advocate as being true and correct.
The record of trial in the instant case directly and specifically implies that there did not exist at the time of the trial a treaty or agreement between the United States of America and the Danish or Icelandic governments authorizing a United States Military Court sitting in Iceland to subpoena and thereby compel an Icelandic subject or citizen to appear before it and testify as a witness. In default of such treaty authorization, United States military courts sitting in Iceland possess no such power or authority, and their process would be null and void (70 C.J., sec,17, p.42; 33 C.J., sec.17, p.397, note 90; Glass v. The Sloop, Betsy,
2	Dali. 6; 1 L. Ed. 485)* Process of courts-martial issued under the 22nd Article' of War has validity only in the United States, its territories and possessions. I therefore believe that the record of trial justifies the conclusion that United States courts-martial in Iceland were, at the time of the trial of accused, without power or means to compel an Icelandic citizen or subject to appear before it as a witness and that the presence of such witness could be secured only as a result of diplomatic negotiations with the Icelandic government.
The record of trial shows that the trial judge advocate supported the admission in evidence of the deposition on the authority of the 25th Article of War. In ruling favorably to the admission of the deposition, the Law Member construed and interpreted said article. The argument of defense counsel in opposition was premised on the fact that the witness lived about ten miles from the place of trial. There is no suggestion in the record that the deposition was admitted on any other authority than this article.
2. The American Articles of War of 1776, enacted by the Continental Congress on 20 September 1776, made no provision for the presentation of evidence by means of depositions. However, on 16 November 1779, the Continerial Congress:
''Resolved: That in cases not capital in trials in courts-martial, depositions may be given in evidence, provided the prosecutor and person accused are present at the taking of same."
(Ill Journal of the American Congress, p.392).
2
(150)
Thereafter the Continental Congress by Act of May 31, 1786, repealed the 14th Section of the Articles of War of 1776 and substituted a new section consisting of 27 Articles.
Article 10 of this new section provided*
"On the trials of cases not capital, before courts-martial, the deposition of witnesses, not in the line or staff of the army, may be taken before some justice of the peace, and read in evidence; provided the prosecutor and person accused are present at the taking of same."
The Articles of War of 1806 (Act of April 10, 1806) superseded all prior legislation on the subject. Article 74 of the new code perpetuated Article 10 above quoted, but added the phrase: "or are duly notified thereof" following the word "same" so as to make the proviso read:
"provided the prosecutor and person accused are present at the taking of same, or are duly notified thereof."
It is to be noted that "the provision of 1806 was restricted to civil persons because such could not (then) legally be required **** to attend as witnesses before courts-martial (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.352).
In the Articles of War 1874 (Act of June 22, 1874, R.S.1342)
Congress directed in the 91st Article:
"The deposition of witnesses, residing beyond the limits of the State, Territory, or district in which any military court may be ordered to sit, if taken on reasonable notice to the opposite party and duly authenticated, may be read in evidence before such court in cases not capital."
By this enactment Congress introduced for the first time two new factors with respect to the use of depositions in courts-martial:	(l) testimony of
witnesses, either military or civilian could be presented by deposition, but (2) a witness must reside "beyond the limits of the State, Territory or district in which any military court may be ordered to sit "before his deposition could be read in evidence. The phrase "residing beyond the limits" was strictly construed so that a deposition was not admissible if the witness did actually reside (as distinguished from temporarily absent)
"beyond the limits etc." (Wlnthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint,
P.353).
The latter of these alterations contains an element characteristic of the common law, viz: geographical or political limitations - limitations almost unknown in military jurisprudence. Their presense in the 91st Article strongly suggests that Congress used as its model R.S.863 (Act of
567
3
(151)
24 Sept. 1789, c.20, sec.30, 1 Stat. 88, as amended} 28 U.S.C., sec.639) which authorized the taking and use on the civil side of the Federal courts of depositions de bene esse: such legislation providing that depositions de bene esse might be taken and used nwhen the witness lives at a greater distance from the place of	trial	than one hundred	miles, or is bound	on a
voyage to sea, or is about	to go	out of the United States, or out of	the
district in which the case	is to	be tried, and to	a greater distance	than
one hundred miles from the	place	of trial, before	the time of trial,	or when
he is ancient and infirm" • The comparison of the civil procedure provision with the 91st Article makes it reasonably certain that the above suggestion is correct. There is a striking versimilitude in the limitations prescribed and also certain language is almost identical.
The placement in the 91st Article of geographical or political limitations, which obviously was based upon the fundamental common law concepts of jurisdiction and venue, is an anomaly in military jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction and procedure of a military court are "not **** restricted in the exercise of its authority to the limits of a particular State or other district or region." (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p,8l).
The anomaly becomes more apparent when the limitations are specifically examined. For example, a deposition cannot be used if the witness does not reside beyond the limits of a State. There is no statutory or constitutional reason why a court-martial should be thus limited. A general court, sitting in New York can try a soldier for an offense committed in California, or sitting in the United Kingdom even try a soldier for an offense committed in New York - a jurisdictional principle opposite to the concept operative in the civil courts.
Geographical and political limitations in the use of depositions before courts-martial are therefore foreign to one of the basic conceptions of our military jurisprudence,
"A court-martial, whether assembled in the foreign territory or in the United States, will have jurisdiction of military offenses committed within such places equally as if committed on our own soil". (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents,
Reprint, p,81} 6 C.J.S., sec.54c, p.446).
The Articles of War of 1874 represented a departure from the norm of military jurisprudence in this respect and the same was perpetuated in the 1916 revision of the Articles of War where the statutory authority for the taking and using of depositions in military courts and tribunals first appeared in its present form (Act 29 August 1916, 39 Stat, 625, R.S.1342 as amended). The same was ^e-enacted in the 1920 revision (Act 4 June 1920, 0,227, sub-chapter II, sec.l, 41 Stat. 792, 10 U.S.C. 1496):
(152)
"Art. 25. Depositions- When Admissible.- A duly authenticated deposition taken upon reasonable notice to the opposite party may be read in evidence before any military court or commission in any case not capital, or in any proceeding before a court of inquiry or a military board, if such deposition be taken when the witness resides, is found, or is about to go beyond the State, Territory, or District in which the court, commission or board is ordered to sit, or beyond the distance of one hundred miles from the place of trial or hearing, or when it appears to the satisfaction of the court, commission, board, or appointing authority that the witness, ty reason of age, sickness, bodily infirmity, imprisonment, or other reasonable cause, is unable to appear and testify in person at the place of trial'or hearing: Provided; That testimony by deposition may be adduced for the defense in capital cases."
(MCM., 1928, p.208), (Underscoring supplied).
Relevant to the power of courts-martial to secure testimony of
witnesses by means of depositions is the authority of such tribunals to compel witnesses to appear before it in person. By the act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 75A) Congress directed:
"That every judge advocate of a court-martial or court of inquiry hereafter to be constituted, shall have power to issue the like process to cojppel witnesses to appear and testify which courts of criminal jurisdiction within the State, Territory, or district where such military courts shall be ordered to sit may lawfully issue."
This statutory provision became Sec.1202, R.S.1878. Prior to its enactment there was no authority for courts-martial to compel civilian witnesses to appear and testify before it (9 Ops.Atty.Gen. 31l)« The "like process **** which courts of criminal jurisdiction *»** may lawfully issue" at the time of the enactment of the above statute ran outside of the district in which the court sat (9 Ops.Atiy.Gen. 265 (1859).
When the Articles of War were revised in 1916 (Act Aug 29, 1916;
39 Stat. 625) the Act of March 3, 1863 became Article 22 as follows:
"Every trial judge advocate of a general or special court-martial and every summary court-martial shall have power to Issue the like process to compel witnesses to appear and testify which courts of the United States, having criminal jurisdiction, may lawfully issuej but such process shall run to any part of the United States, its Territories, and possessions."
5G7
(153)
The foregoing Article was carried into the 1920 revision in substantially the same form (Act June 4, 1920; 41 Stat. 759; 10 U.S.C. 1493) and is thus presently effective (AW 22).
From the time of the Revolutionary War to the enactment of Articles of War of 1874, depositions of civilian witnesses could be read in evidence before courts-martial without consideration of the place of residence of the witnesses or where they were found. In 1863 Congress Initially empowered trial judge advocates to subpoena civilian witnesses. In the 1874 revision of the Articles of War, Congress for the first time limited the right to take and read such depositions by means of restrictions pertaining to the place of residence of the witness. Such restrictions were undoubtedly proqted by the fact that previously (1863) Congress had authorized the summoning into court of civilian witnesses by courts-martial by process running throughout the United States, and therefore some limitation on the right to take and use depositions seemed expedient or necessary.
3.	For primary consideration is the vital question as to whether the provisions of the 25th Article of War are applicable when a military court or tribunal is sitting in Iceland. The answer to this question is found by determining the intention of Congress as revealed by its enactment. The history of the statute as above set forth may properly be considered (United States v. Raynor, 302 U.S, 540, 82 L. Ed. 413; United States v. Morrow, 266 U.S. 531, 69 L. Ed, 425), but legislative intention must primarily be discovered from the language of the statute itself (United States v, Goldenberg, 168 U.S. 95, 42 L. Ed. 394).
In the history of legislation relative to depositions antecedent to the 1874 statute there is not only no implication or suggestion that Congress contemplated or intended to'cover the situation arising when the Nation's military courts sit in a foreign country but there are circumstances which compel the opposite conclusion. The 1779 and 1786 legislation was adopted by the Continental Congress during the Revolutionary War. The suggestion that the Congress contemplated that the continental troops would be used in service in a foreign land is so absurd as not to be worthy of further thought. The 1806 provision was a re-enactment of the 1786 law with an immaterial addition. The designation of "some justice of the peace" as the officer before whom depositions should be taken definitely stamps the acts of 1786 and 1806 as intended solely for domestic application.
Commencing with 1874 code and repetitiously thereafter Congress authorized the taking and reading of depositions of witnesses who resided "beyond the limits of the State, Territory, or district in which any military court may be ordered to sit". By use of this phraseology it is evident that Congressional consciousness was not directed to foreign countries.
The words "State", "Territory" and "district" are distinctly domestic in their description. "State" and "Territory" occur hundreds of times in Federal statutes, and their meaning is obvious. The word "district" as used in the 1874 code and the word "District" found in present AW 25 are
L
t
associated with the words "State" and "Territory". The maxim "noscitur a sociis" is applicable although the disjunctive "or" is used (59 C.J., sec,579, p.979; Crawford, Statutory Construction, sec.190, p.325).
"District" or "district" must refer to a political subdivision of the United States, viz: District of Columbia (Benson v. Henkel, 19# U.S. 1, 13; 49 L. Ed. 919, 923>.
An additional reason for the conclusion that Congress did not intend that AW 25 should be operative when a military tribunal sat in a foreign country is furnished by the similarity of the Article to the provisions of the Federal civil code governing depositions de bene esse (supra). The latter statute shall "apply to the taking of depositions of witnesses within the United States, and have application to the taking of depositions in foreign countries". (Cortes Co. v. Tannhauser, 18 Fed. 667; Compania Azucarera Cubans v. Ingraham, 180 Fed. 516). It is therefore, my opinion that the legislative history of the 25th Article of Wal* and its intrinsic phraseology compel the conclusion that Congress intended it to be operative only when courts-martial were sitting in the continental United States or territories thereof, and that it did not intend that it should govern the taking and use of depositions when courts-martial sit in a foreign country,
"Law is a statement of the circumstances, in which the public force will be brought to bear upon men through the courts. But the word commonly is confined to such prophecies or threats when addressed to-persons living within the power of the courts, A threat that depends upon the choice of the party affected to bring himself within that power hardly would be called law in. the ordinary sense. We do not speak of blockade running by neutrals as unlawful. And the usages of speech correspond to the limit of the attempts of the lawmaker, except in extraordinary cases.
It is true that domestic corporations remain always within the power of the domestic law; but, in the present case, at least, there is no ground for distinguishing between corporations and men.
The foregoing considerations would lead, in case of doubt, to a construction of any statute as intended to be confined in its operation and effect to the territorial limits over which the lawmaker has general and legitimate power."
(American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co, 213 U.S.
347; 53 L. Ed., 827,832).
"Legislation is presumptively territorial and ' confined to limits over which the law making power has jurisdiction", (Sandberg v. McDonald,
248 U.S. 185,196; 63 L. Ed., 200,204).
7
5C7
(155)
"It contains no words which definitely disclose an intention to give it extraterritorial effect, nor do the circumstances require an inference of such purpose", (NewYork Central R. Co, v. Chisholm,
268 U.S. 29,31; 69 L; Ed. 828,832),
4.	In the instant case the trial judge advocate in his argument and the Law Member in his ruling supported the admission of the deposition upon a construction of the following portion of AW 25:
"A duly authenticated deposition *** may be read in evidence ** when it appears to the satisfaction of the court, **-* or appointing authority that the witness, by reason of age, sickness, bodily infirmity. imprisonment or other reasonable cause, is unable to appear and testify in person ***»*". (Underscoring supplied).
It was argued by the trial judge advocate that Mr. Halgrimsson’3 refusal to appear and testify in court until ordered to do so by the Icelandic authorities, was "other reasonable cause". The Law Member adopted such construction of the statute.
There is a two-fold objection to such construction of the phrase "or other reasonable cause"; both objections being closely related, but resting upon separate bases:
(a) The -pertinent phrase "or other reasonable cause" is part of the expression "by reason of age, sickness, bodily infirmity, imprisonment OR OTHER REASONABIE CAUSE is unable to appear", which sets forth four specific conditions under which depositions are admissible (l) age, (2) sickness, (3) bodily infirmity and (4) imprisonment. These four causes operate upon or against the witness regardless of his will or wish. He may be so old, sick or infirm or he may be incarcerated so' as to be unable to attend court. The word "unable" in this connection has an important implication.
"This terra as used in a statute providing that evidence given in a former trial may be proved in a subsequent trial, where the witness is unable to testify, means mentally and physically unable.-Hansen-Rynning v. Oregon-Washington R. & Nav.Co, 105 Or. 67, 209 Pac. 462.464". (Blacks Law Diction_ry, p.1772).
Webster’s New International Dictionary defines "unable"'as:
"Not able; incapable; unqualified; incompetentj inefficient ***; impotent; helpless".
- 8 -
These four specifically expressed excuses for the non-appearance of the witness in court bespeak conditions under T&ich the witness cannot appear rather' than will not appear* They describe disabilities acting directly upon the witness which prevent him from appearing - prevent him because he does not possess the physical strength, power or liberty of action# He is therefore unable to appear. None of these disabling causes were asserted as the reasons for Mr# Hallgrimsson's non-appearance on the witness stand. He refused to appear in court unless ordered bv his government. There was no disability, impotency or helplessness involved in this refusal, which was a wilful, deliberate act# He was able "to appear and testify11, but refused except Tinder a condition which is not now material.
The construction adopted by the Law Member requires the definition of the word "unable" to be distorted so as to include in its sense the meaning "unwilling" or 'in the alternative the insertion of the words "or unwilling11 following the word "unable". The first proposition is untenable because it departs from the "natural, plain, ordinary and commonly understood meaning" of "unable". (59 C.J., sec.577, p.975j United States v. First National Bank of Detroit, Minnesota, 234- U.S. 24-5, 58 L.Ed., 1298). The second proposition is simply judicial legislation and therefore must be condemned (59 C.J., sec.564-, pp.944->94-5j Crooks v. Harrelson, 282 U.S. 55,58, 75 L.Ed., 156,174).
(b) The doctrine of "Ejusdem Generis" as a rule of construction is particularly applicable to the instant case.
"*** where general words follow the enumeration of particular classes of persons or things, the general words will be construed as applicable only to persons or things of the same general nature or class as those enumerated, and this rule has been held especially applicable to penal statutes. The particular words are’ presumed to describe certain species and the general words to be used for the purpose of including other species of the same genus. The rule is based on the obvious reason that if the legislature had intended the general words to be used in their unrestricted sense they would have made no mention of the particular classes. The words 'other1 or •any other1 following an enumeration of particular classes are therefore to be read as 'other such like*, and to include only others of like kind or character #**." (59 C.J., sec,581, pp,981,982).
9
5C7
(157)
"But under no circumstances and regardless of the type of statute involved, must the rule be used where the language of the statute Tinder consideration is plain and there is no uncertainty, Its use is permissible only as an aid to the court in its attempt to ascertain the intent of the law makers, **** Nor is the rule to be applied where specific words enumerate subjects which greatly differ from each other, or where the specific words exhaust all the objects of the class mentioned, *** And still further, in any case, the context of the whole statute may rebut the application of the rule of 'ejusdem generis*.	*■***"	(Crawford, Statutory
Construction, sec,191, pp.327-329)*
By authority of AW 25 a deposition may be read in evidence "when it appears *** that the witness, by reason of age, sickness, bodily infirmity. imprisonment or OTHER REASONABLE CAUSE is unable to appear and testify in person". The specific excuses for the non-appearance of the witness are four in number, and all of them operate against and upon the physical power of the witness to appear. They describe physical disabilities or restraints upon his freedom of action. It is manifest that Congress in authorizing the use of depositions was concerning itself with the personal physical status of the witness.	It intended that the deposition of a sick, elderly or
infirm witness dr one who was ’incarcerated might be used and then to make certain that it had covered all causes operating against the physical freedom of a Witness it added the omnibus phrase "or other reasonable cause". It is difficult to imagine a more perfect application of the rule ’"Ejusdem generis". The four specific excuses all relate to 'the same 'subject, viz: bodily restraint or disability. However, they do not exhaust all of the possibilities of such restraint or disability: a Witness may be quarantined under health regulationsj or may be the sole attendant of a seriously ill infant or a bed-ridden elderly person, or his condition of employment may be such as to forbid his absence therefrom without the production of irreparable harm or injury. Congress realized that human relationships are complex and multifarious and that unusual and unforeseen disabilities and restraints upon a witness possibly might arise which would render him "unable" to attend court, and it therefore empowered the court or appointing authority to exercise its discretion in the taking and using of such witness* deposition. The wilful refusal of a witness possessing physical ability and being free from moral and legal restraint' to .attend court and testify could not therefore have been within the ambit of legislative intention, A recalcitrant witness under such circumstances is able to attend - not unable as the statute specifies - and his attendance may be compelled by process under AW 22, The fact, however,’ that a court may be sitting in a foreign country where such process is ineffective will not authorize the use of the deposition of a refractory witness where no authority previously existed for its use.
10
(158)
As supporting the conclusion herein expressed with respect to the phrase "other reasonable cause” the following cogent authorities are cited!
United States v. Chase, 135 U.S. 255, 34 I*. Ed., 117; United States v.
Stever, 222 U.S. 167, 56 L. Ed., 145; United States v. Salen, 235 U.S. 237,
59 L. Ed., 210.
5.	It is therefore my opinion:
First, that the 25th Article of War did not authorize the taking and reading of the Hallgrimsson deposition because Congress did not intend to make it applicable to courts-martial sitting in foreign countries.
Second, that if AW 25 is applicable to Iceland, its own provisions properly construed, do not authorize the taking and reading of the deposition of a witness residing within one hundred miles of the place of trial, but who refuses to attend court and testify.
6.	Inasmuch as the 25th Article of War is not applicable to courts-martial sitting in Iceland the basis for the authority of - the officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction to order a deposition of a witness and also authority for its use must be found elsewhere.
The Manual for Courts-Martial, 1921, par.182, p.149 contains the following statement:
"In the case of troops serving along the international boundries, .outside of the United States proper, or in foreign countries, the officer exercising general court-martial ■jurisdiction may, in his discretion, detail an officer to take the deposition of a civilian witness, or he may send the interrogatories direct to the consul of the United States nearest the place of residence of the witness with the request that the deposition be taken.
In the latter case the interrogatories will be accompanied by the proper vouchers for the fees and mileage of the witness.” (Underscoring supplied).
The foregoing was omitted from the 1928 Manual, but "it does not follow that any such omitted portion may not apply to a given case, unless of course, its provisions have been changed” by the 1928 Manual. (Introduction to 1928 Manual for Courts-Martial, p.VIl).
It therefore appears from the foregoing that when troops are serving within a foreign country the authority to order a deposition to be taken is vested in the "officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction". "He may detail an officer to take the deposition" or "he may send the
- 11 -
5G7
(159)
interrogatories direct to the consul of the United States," etc. The exercise of the foregoing authority of necessity presumes that both the prosecution and defense have been given the opportunity to present to the commanding officer interrogatories apd crpss-interrogatories pursuant to par.98b, p.89 Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928 upon which the deposition will be taken.
The Manual for Courts-Martial is prescribed by Executive Order of the President under AW 30 authorizing him "by regulations (to) prescribe the procedure, including modes of proof, in cases before courts-martial".
The Manual is a legal, binding regulation of the Army having full force of law (In re Brodie 128 Fed. (CCA) 665).
A general grant of powers to perform official duties, unaccompanied by definite directions as to how the power is to be exercised or duty performed, implies the right and duty to employ the means and methods necessary for the due and effective exercise of the powers expressly granted (46 C.J., sec.287, p.1032; In re Neagle 39 Fed. 834; State on inf.
McKittrick v. Wymore, 132 S.W.- 2nd - (Mo.) 979; State ex rel Taylor v. Superior Court 98 Pac.- 2nd - (Washington) 985; Cornell v. Harris, 88 Pac.-2nd - (Idaho) 498; City of Wilburton v. King, 18 Pac.- 2nd (Okla) 1075))»
It follows from the above principle that an officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction, being duly authorized to order the taking of depositions when troops are serving in foreign countries, also possesses the implied power to direct how, when and under what ponditions they may be taken. He can adopt the restrictions contained in AW 25 or eliminate them as he elects.	However, when the deposition is before the court and is
being read, the testimony therein is subject to the same objections as if given by a witness on the stand and the admissibility of contents thereof is exclusively a function for the court, and with which the officer ordering the deposition cannot interfere.
In the instant case the Commanding General, USAFI directed Captain Scully to "take or cause to be taken the deposition" of Rev. Mr. Hallgrimsson, but did not restrict or limit its use by the court in any respect. The ruling of the law member admitting the deposition in evidence was correct.
The fact that it was based upon an erroneous premise does not affect, its legality (4 C.J., sec.3125, p.U32; 5 C.J.S., sec.1849, p.1335, note 68).
The question as to whether the officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over troops stationed in a foreign country has authority without the consent of the accused to order the taking of a deposition on behalf of the prosecution in a capital case is specifically reserved notwithstanding the use of general language herein.
7.	War Department Circular #179, 8 June 1942 provided:
c.
"No military personnel on duty in any foreign country or possession may marry without the permission of the commanding officer of the United States Forces stationed in such foreign country or possession".
The Commanding General, USAFI by his memorandum #155 dated 18 July 1942 invited the attention of his personnel to the foregoing circular of the War Department, By Bulletin of 25 August 1942, the C.G,, USAFI reiterated the notice to his personnel concerning the said regulation.
The War Department by its Circular #305 dated 8 September 1942 rescinded its circular #179 and substituted the following:
"No military personnel on duty in the Panama Canal Zone or in any foreign country or possession may marry without the approval of the commanding officer of the United States Army Forces stationed in the Panama Canal Zone or in such foreign country or possession".
It will be noted that the only difference between the circular #305 and #179 is the addition of the Panama Canal Zone as within the restricted area. At the time of the alleged offense, 3 April 194-3, the regulation concerning marriage of military personnel contained in War Department • Circular #305 was therefore in operation and effect.
Undoubtedly the accused had actual knowledge of the limitation upon the right of military personnel in Iceland to contract marriage; otherwise he would not have made his written application dated 31 tSarch 1943 for permission to marry the Icelandic woman (Pros,Ex,7).
The defense attacked the validity of the standing order of the War Department contained in Circular #305 on the ground that the same was void under the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution and also that it was promulgated by the Secretary of War under an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power (R 30),
The Constitution provides:
"The Congress shall have Power *** To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces; ***" (Article I, 3ec,8, Cl,14),
Exercising the foregoing power Congress enacted the following
statute:
13
(161)
"The President is authorized to make and publish regulations for the government of the Army in accordance with the existing laws, which shall be in force and obeyed until altered or revoked by the same authority: Provided, That said regulations shall not be inconsistent with the laws of the United States (Act of July 15, 1870,
16 Stat. 319; Act of March 1, 1875, 18 Stat. 337;
10 U.S.C. 16)".
The authority delegated to the President under the aforesaid statute manifestly authorizes the President to establish rules and regulations for the government of the Amy. The Secretary of" War is the appropriate organ of the President for expressing his directions in matters affecting the administration and government of the Army (United States v, Eliason, 16 Pet. 291,301, 10 L. Ed. 968,972; United States v. Fletcher H8 U.S. 8A,89, 37 L. Ed. 378,380; In re Brodie 128 Fed. (CCA) 665).
Although the Constitution confers on Congress plenary power to make rules for the government and regulation of the land forces, the exercise of such authority is undoubtedly subject to the restrictions of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution which provides; that:
"No persons shall *** be deprived of life - liberty, or property, without due process of law ***".
"The requirement of due process of law imposed by the Fifth Amendment upon the United States is, in its application to the legislative powers of Congress, governed by the fact that the powers are expressly given to that body and, except as expressly qualified or limited by other provisions of the Constitution, are to be construed as plenary in character. This fact is of great importance for the reason that the principle is well established that, where a plenary regulative or controlling power is granted by the Constitution to a legislative body, there is authorized an incidental interference with private rights which may result from the rules and regulations which, in the exercise of that, power, the legislature may see fit to establish.
This principle follows from the fact that the power being constitutionally granted there can, of course, be no claim that, when exercised, the legislature is exceeding its powers. This does not mean, however, that the requirement of due process of law is to have no application. Upon the procedural side it has full application. No one can be held civilly or criminally responsible
- U -
(162)
under the legislatively created rules and regulations except in proceedings which satisfy the procedural requirements of due process of law.
Furthermore, upon its substantive side, due process of law operates as a limitation through the application of the rule that the legislative power which is granted is one which must be reasonably and not arbitrarily exercised. But it still remains true that the grant of constitutional power opens up the subject to legislative regulation, and that, therefore, no claim can be made that the subject itself, as one involving private rights, is exempt from legislative regulation. However, the power to regulate, even though plenary, does not carry with it a right, under its guise, to enact legislation, the direct and primary purpose which is to impair or destroy private, personal or property rights. And in general it is, of course, true that not every law, in form, or by legislative avowal declared to be, an exercise of a granted regulative power, is necessarily to be held to be such." (Willoughby's Constitutional Law of th$ United States, 2nd Students Edition, sec.850, p.797).
Therefore, the objection of the defense is something more than colorable.
The Supreme Court has declared that one of the fundamental rights of the individual protected by the Fourteenth Amendment from infringement by the States is the right to enter into the marriage relationship,
"While this court has not attempted to define with exactness the liberty thus guaranteed, the term has received much consideration, and some of the included things have been definitely stated.
Without doubt, it denotes not merely freedom from bodily restraint, but also the right of the individual to contract, to engage in any of the common occupations of life, to acquire useful knowledge, to marry, establish a home and bring up children, to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience and, generally to enjoy those privileges long recognized at the common law as essential to the orderly pursuit of happiness by free men. " (Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U.S, 390,399,
67 L. Ed., 1042,104.5> Pierce v. Society of Sister; of Holy Names of Jesus and Mary, 268 U.S. 510,
69 L. Ed,, 1070; Farrington v. Tokushige et al,
273 U.S. 235, 71 L. Ed. 646),
15
5C7
(163)
The fundamental rights of the individual protected hy the Fourteenth Amendment from infringement by the States are guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment against action by Congress (Farrington v. Tokushige et al, supra). It is axiomatic that Congress, except within a limited constitutional area not material here, possesses no authority to legislate concerning marriage or the marriage status. This is a field of domestic law specifically retained by the States under the Tenth Amendment (38 C.J., sec.2, note 20, p.1275).
It is therefore manifest that the authority of Congress under Art.I, sec.8, cl.14 of the Constitution to make rules for the government and regulation of the Army, although plenary in nature, cannot be exercised in such an unreasonable and arbitrary manner as to impair or destroy the personal rights of an individual protected by the Fifth Amendment. A Federal statute absolutely prohibiting marriage of the military personnel under any and all conditions and regardless of their location would probably run afoul of the Fifth Amendment. Such legislation would be arbitrary and capricious and would be denying the individual an inalienable right.
The grant of authority to Congress to make rules for the government and regulation of the armed forces of the nation is a highly necessary auxiliary power to the authority to provide for the common defense, and to declare war and to raise and support armies (Art.I, sec.8, cls.l and 12 of the Constitution). It should therefore be construed in such manner as will insure to Congress the power necessary in the performance of its duty to provide properly for the national defense. Legislation having a legitimate, reasonable and logical connection with the raising, maintenance, discipline and effective use of the army may be sustained notwithstanding the fact that in some degree it may impinge upon personal rights. The liberty of the citizen is at all times subject to limitations and regulations imposed by Congress under Constitutional authority. Under the power to raise armies Congress has the "power to say who shall serve in them and in what way". Compulsory military service is authorized (United States v.
Macintosh, 283 U.S. 605,622, 75 L. Ed., 1302,1308; Arver v. United States,
2A5 U.S. 366, 62 L. Ed., 349).
The synthesizing of the plenary Constitutional power granted Congress to regulate and control the military forces with the personal rights of the individual guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment, is a judicial function (United States v. Darby, 312 U.S. 100,126, 85 L. Ed., 609,623).
If an act of Congress prescribing rules for regulating the army has a direct and reasonable relationship to the maintenance of its discipline and control, it is within the legislative power under Art.I, sec.8, cl.14 of the Constitution, notwithstanding its indirect influence on individual rights.
The presence of armed forces of the nation within the territory of a friendly foreign power necessarily creates disciplinary problems not
16

(165)
ii*****. Regulations must confine themselves within their appropriate province- must not trench upon that of legislation. A regulation which assumes to prescribe in regard to a matter which is properly a subject for original legislation, departs from 'the range of purely executive or administrative action,' is in a just sense a regulation no longer, and can have no legal effect as such.
**********» k ** **x *
*** it can scarcely be questioned that an army regulation which should assume to impose a condition upon the enjoyment of a statutory right or the exercise of a statutory authority, to vest or divest rights to pay or rank, to restrict or extend the jurisdiction of a court-martial or otherwise administer justice, to dispose of public property, to direct as to what persons should or should not be enlisted in the arms’’, to prescribe rules of evidence, or to regulate any other subject usually and properly regulated by the legislative department under the powers conferred upon Congress by the Constitution-would be ultra vires and unauthorized.
*XXXXXXXX*XX*XXXX*
The widest discretion in the framing of regulations may, it is conceived, properly be taken by the Executive in a case where the enactment conveying the authority has been prompted by the necessities of a grave public emergency, and especially cm existing or impending state of war." (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, pp.33,34->35).
The maintenance of discipline and control over the armed forces demands the exercise of a wide discretion and the employment of a great variety of means. The department of government charged with the responsibility of maintaining an efficient fighting force can best determine the methods of obtaining and keeping discipline. Congress may well leave the details of discipline to those best qualified.
The order in question is directly related to the problem of discipline and appears to be a practical and sensible method of maintaining control of officers and soldiers in one of the facets of their relationship to Icelandic citizens and subjects which is particularly personal and sensitive. It is a valid exercise of the constitutional grant to Congress to make rules for the government and regulation of the land forces, and is well within the authority granted the President "to make and publish regulations for the government of the army"•
- 18
(166)
"The power of the executive to establish rules and regulations for the government of the army is undoubted. ***. Such regulations cannot be questioned or defined because they may be thought unwise or mistaken." (United States v.
Eliason, 16 Pet. 291,300, 10 L. Ed., 968,972;
In re Brodie 128 Fed. (CCA) 665)•
It is suggested in the record of trial that the commanding general.
USAFI had adopted a policy not to approve any application for permission to marry, regardless of facts and circumstances. The War Department order vested in the commanding general discretion to determine to whom and under what circumstances permission to marry would be granted. He may well have determined that conditions in Iceland are such that the inter-marriage between military personnel and Icelandic women require universal interdiction. It is his peculiar duty and function to determine such fact. Interference with the exercise of such authority should not be tolerated and is not authorized (Creaiy v. Weeks, 259 U.S, 336, 66 L. Ed., 973).
8.	The violation by accused of the standing order of the War Department is clearly a violation of the 96th Article of War inasmuch as it was a military offense to the prejudice of good order and military discipline*
9.	For the reasons herein stated, I am in accord with the conclusions of the majority of the Board of Review and am of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
Judge Advocate
A 19 -
T ■
WAR DEPARTMENT
(167)
CTOKY
BUY
OFFICE OF THE JUOGE ADVOCATE GENERAL FOR THE
EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS
In reply refer to:
CM ETO 567
SUBJECT:	CM	ETC	567,	T/5 HORACE E. RADLQFF (6668608), Company H,
10th Infantry.
TO :	Staff	Judge	Advocate, Headquarters, 5th Infantry Division,
APO 5, U. S. Army.
1.	Herewith transmitted is copy of holding of the Board of Review also copy of the concurring holding in the case of the soldier named above. You will note that the Board finds the record legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and to support the sentence,
2,	I concur in both the majority and concurring holdings of the Board of Review.
'E. C. McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Amy, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
2 Incls:
Incl.l: Holding of Board of Review. Incl.2: Concurring Holding.
KuJ'u jA j’ bit.
AUG 18 1543

#(169)
