#(293)
CONFIDENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APO
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1036
UNITED- STATES j
• ) )
Private MARSHALL K. HARRIS	)
(6153269), Company A,	37th	)
Replacement Battalion,	10th	)
Replacement Depot.	)
.-9 DEC 1943
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by 6.C.M., convened at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield} England, 13 November 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	- The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge, and Specifications
CHARGE: Violation of the 58th Article of War.
Specification: . In that Private Marshall K. Harris,
Company A., 37th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot-, Whittington Barracks,-Lichfield, England, did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, England, on or about 15 October 1943 desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about 23 October 1943.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found gvjjLlty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence of three previous convictions, two by special courts-martial ..and one by summary court for absences without leave of 52, 48 and 25 days respectively in violation of Article of War 61, were introduced. He was sentenced to.be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for ten years.
-1-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of' trial for action, pursuant, to the provisions of Article of War 50£.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution may be summarized as follows:
The morning report of accused's organization was identified by his company commander, Captain Leroy Cunningham, Infantry, was admitted in evidence and later withdrawn, and an extract-copy certified by Captain Cunningham was inserted in the trial record in lieu thereof. It contained in pertinent part the following entries:
"16 Oct.1943.
6153269 Harris, Marshal X. FA Pvt.
Duty to AWOL 2359 Hrs. 15 Oct. (LC)
****** *
24 Oct.1943.
6153269 Harris (Abs Conft) Pvt.
Abs Conft to Conft Post Guardhouse APO 874 1830 hrs. 23 Oct.(LC)"
(R6; Pros.Ex.l).
At 11.25 p.m., 22 October 1943, Constable Chatles Terrance of the Birmingham City Police noticed accused on a street in Birmingham, dressed in a civilian suit that was much too small for him. Upon being stopped by Terrance:and asked who he was and where he was going, accused said that his name was Marshall Harris, that he was in the American merchant marine navy and that he was picking up a lorry to Wolverhampton. Asked where he got his army type shirt, he said "from a friend down the road" and pointed towards the Bull Ring. (R6-7). During the conversation he said that he obtained his suit "aboard a ship". Terrance took him to the police station where he voluntarily-revealed that he was.in the military service. ' He was wearing a khaki shirt, a brown civilian coat and trousers and had an identification tag around his neck. Terrance did not know if he wore trousers underneath the civilian clothing (R7).
About 2345 hours, 22 October, accused was turned over by the civil police to Corporal Beryl E. Foster, Company A, 769th Military Police.
He was.wearing a civilian coat and trousers, an army "O.D." shirt and identification tags. In the opinion of Foster-he did not wear trousers under the civilian trousers because the latter "were so tight on him" (R8-9).
4.	For the defense, a sworn statement signed by accused and made before Second Lieutenant Thomas B. Weatherly, Infantry, investigating officer, was received in evidence (R9-10; Def.Ex.2). It was stated
-2-
C0NFIDENT1AI
UUNFIDENTIAL
(295)
therein that accused realized that he was not compelled to make a statement unless he wished to do so, and that his statement could be used in evidence in a trial by court-martial. In substance he stated that he left his organization on pass to Lichfield at about 1800 hours, on Friday, 15 October 194-3, the pass expiring at 2330 hours that evening. He wore his class A uniform. He "got drunk" v in Lichfield and remembered nothing until the following Thursday -(21 October) when he found himself in Birmingham. He was then wearing civilian clothes over his uniform but did not know how he got them or how he happened to be wearing them. Between Thursday and Friday night he remained in Birmingham trying to become sober before he turned himself in. He wore the civilian clothing over his uniform as it was badly torn and "would have made a very bad appearance". He decided to start back to camp and was apprehended by the military police on Friday night. He never intended to desert, his drunkenness being the cause of his absence without leave. This occasion was the first in ten months on which he had had anything to drink and he "just overdid it". (Def.Ex.2).
I	•	‘
Accused, after being warned of his rights, testified that when he left camp his trousers were in good condition (R15), and that he remembered nothing from the time he became intoxicated in Lichfield on the night of 15 October until he found himself in Birmingham.
On Thursday he felt "damn funny", had a bad headache and roamed, around the city (R12). When apprehended he was wearing a woolen • undershirt, woolen trousers (under pants), army socks, "O.D." trousers and "O.D." shirt, black knit tie, blouse,- civilian trousers and civilian coat (RIO). The civilian clothing was worn outside his -uniform, the uniform blouse being under his shirt (R.10-11). As he had been drunk he did not know how he happened to be then wearing the civilian clothing (RIO, 12-14). He had not removed the civilian clothes because he found that the trousers of his uniform were badly tom and he "did not want to disgrace the U.S. Army uniform" (RIO, 13u14). He did not know how his trousers became tom (R.15). He did not want to surrender until he became sober and was getting ready to turn himself in when apprehended (R13). He did not remember whether or not he had told Constable Terrance that he was a member of the American merchant marine or.that he was on his way to Wolverhampton. He was sober when apprehended (R.12). The military trousers worn by accused when arrested were offered in evidence by the defense, admitted, and later withdrawn (Rll; Def. Ex.4).
5 (a). The entry in the morning report (Pros.Ex.1) dated 24 October 1943, reciting the change in accused's status from absence without leave to absent in confinement in Birmingham, wa3 apparently • hearsay in character and therefore inadmissible. Ho objection was made by the defense. The irregularity was non-prejudicial.
(b). The morning report, admitted as Pros.Ex.l.(R6), and accused's statement to Lieutenant Weatherly, admitted as Def.Ex.2 (RIO) were not so labelled. The trousers were offered in evidence.by the
i'
-3-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(296)
defense (Rll), but the exhibit itself is described as that of the prosecution (Pros.Ex.4).
(c). The defense stated that as the evidence showed that accused was in the hands of 'the military police prior to midnight 22 October, accused should not be charged with an absence without leave ending 0010 hours 23 October. The law member announced that the court would give consideration to the fact that accused was apprehended before midnight 22 October (R9). The court found accused guilty of the offense as alleged. There was no variance between the offense alleged in the Specification and the finding of guilty thereof, as the absence of accused was alleged to have been terminated by apprehension on or about 23 October 1943.
(d). One of the three previous convictions introduced in evidence was for absence without leave from 17 June 1942 to 8 August
1942	in violation of Article of War 61. As this offense was committed more than one year prior to the offense charged herein, other previous absences considered, its receipt in evidence was erroneous (MCM., 1928, par.79o, p.66). However, in view of the present authorized maximum punishment for the-offense of desertion (death) and the period of confinement adjudged (ten years), the error did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused (CM 211080, Basham).
6.	' The evidence, including the statement and testimony of accused, shows that accused went absent without leave at 2359 hours' on 15 October
1943	at- the place alleged, and that he was apprehended at the place alleged on 22 October 1943. The only question presented for consideration is whether the evidence is legally sufficient to establish the requisite intent to desert. His absence without leave of eight days was terminated by apprehension. He was then wearing civilian clothes. Although he gave his real name to Constable Terrance he stated that he was a member of the American merchant marine navy, that he was on his way to Wolverhampton, that he got from a friend the army type shirt he was wearing, and that he obtained the civilian suit "aboard a ship". However, accused admitted in his testimony that he was sober when apprehended, that the shirt was his, and that he did not know how he happened to be wearing the civilian clothes. He also testified that he became drunk in Lichfield on the evening of Friday, 15 October and did not remember anything until he found himself
in Birmingham on'the following Thursday (21 October). He did not then surrender to military control because he wanted to "sober up". An examination of a map of England shows that Birmingham is about 20 miles from Lichfield where he was stationed.
Any conflict in the evidence, with respect to the question of intent to desert was a question of fact for the determination of the court. If the evidence was legally sufficient to support the inferential finding by the court that accused had such an intent, the Board of Review will not disturb such finding.
-4-
CONFIDENTIAL
COurlbtN UAL
"Determination of the question as to whether	(297)
an absence is ’much prolonged' or satisfactorily explained, within the meaning of par. 130a, MCM, must depend upon the circumstances of the absence.
An arbitrary yardstick of time may not be "implied. ****. CM 2138lT7l9~40)~» (Dig.Ons.JAG 1912-1940, sec.416(9), p.270). (Underscoring supplied).
In CM 196187, Roath. the only evidence of desertion in the record , of trial consisted of whatever inference could be drawn from an absence without leave for 18 days, accused's failure to return until apprehended and the fact that he was dressed in civilian clothes at the time of apprehension. It was held that the evidence was legally sufficient to support a finding of guilty of absence without leave only.
In the case under consideration, the period of absence was eight days and accused was apprehended about 20 miles from his station. .He admitted that he was sober when apprehended. He falsely represented to the constable that ha was a member of the American merchant marine.
His statement to Terrance as to the manner in which he secured the civilian clothing and army shirt varied materially from his testimony at the trial. Although he testified that he was about to surrender when apprehended, he also told the constable that he was on his way to Wolverhampton. Wolverhampton is about 20 miles northwest of Birmingham and about 20 miles southwest of Lichfield, where he was stationed. He did not disclose that he was in the military service until after he had been taken into custody. The foregoing evidence would fully justify a belief by the court that accused falsely represented his status with the purpose of avoiding apprehension. It was entitled to disbelieve his testimony with reference to the wearing of the civilian clothing and to infer from all the evidence that he wore it in order to avoid detection. In the opinion of the Board of Review the evidence is legally sufficient to establish the intent to desert.
7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of age, that * he enlisted at Springfield,'Massachusetts, 20 June 1940, and that his service is governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941. He had no prior service.
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
9.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO # 37 ET0USA, 9 September 1942
as amended by'GO if 63, ET0USA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general
-5-
C0NF1DENTIAL
' prisoner may be'returned to the 'United States -to-serve,a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authprized ; for the: offense of ‘desertion in time of war (AW .42). As .accused is under "31-years-of age and his sentence is not mere than 10 years,>. the designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe,' Ohio is - correct ^(War Department Circular 291, 10 November .194-3, > section V 3a).
-6"
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(299)
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. ^	1943	} Q0mmanding
Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private MARSHALL K. HARRIS (6153269), Company A, 37th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5(>2 you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to
' this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1036. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1036).
Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(301)
