#(251)
CONFIDENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 991
UNITED STATES	)
)
v.	)
)
Private ANTHONY J. GUGLIOTTA	)
(3220323U) and Private THOMAS M.	)
HARRINGTON (20214:628), both of	)
Troop ”Cn,' 102nd Cavalry (Mecz).	)
)
)
1 0 DEC 1943
v CORPS
Trial by G«C*M., convened at Norton Manor Camp, (England), 2 November 19U3-Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor, Gugliotta for two years and six months at the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekraan, New York, and Harrington for four years at The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAM BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the B0ard of Review.
2.	Accused were tried upon the following charges and specifications:
GUGLIOTTA
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 96 Article of War.
Specification 1:	In that Private Anthony J. Gugliotta,
Troop C, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz), did, at West Burton,
England, on or about 13 September 19^3, attempt to commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature attempting to have ' carnal connection in the mouth of a human being,
to wit:	one Ernest Victor Frank Gray of Dunns Lane, Sillon,
Gillingham, England.
Specification 2:	In that Private Anthony J. Gugliotta,
Troop C, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz), did, at West Burton,
England, on or about 13 September 19U3, willfully, wrongfully, .and unlawfully, damage a bicycle, the property of Ernest Victor Frank Gray of Dunns Lane,
Sillon, Gillingham, England, in the amount of about
56.00.
CONFIDENTIAL
HARRINGTON
CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Thomas M. Harrington,
Troop C, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz),.did, at ’West Burton, England, on or about 13 September 19k3> commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection in the mouth of a human being, to wit:	one Ernest Victor Frank Gray of
Dunns Lane, Sillon, Gillingham, England.
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Thomas M. Harrington,
Troop C, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz), did, at West Burton,
England, on or about 13 September 19k3> willfully, wrongfully, and unlawfully damage a bicycle, the property of Ernest Victor Frank Gray of Dunns Lane,
Sillon, Gillingham, England, in the amount of $L,00.
Each accused was separately charged but their trials were consolidated. Each pleaded not guilty to, anQ^wras found guilty of their respective charges and specifications. No previous convictions were introduced against Gugliotta. One previous conviction for absence without leave was introduced against Harrington. Each accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, Gugliotta for two years and six months and Harrington for four years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York as the place of confinement for Gugliotta, and the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement for Harrington, and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War £o|.
3.	The prosecution’s evidence was substantially as follows:
Ernest Victor Frank Gray, a farm laborer about 18 years old (R12) of Dunns Lane, Sillon, Gillingham, Dorset, at about 10:30 on the night of 13 September 19h3, was riding his sister’s bicycle, and at Bourton Cross Road’s in the village of Bourton, was accosted by the two accused who inquired the way to Wincanton. Upon being given the directions, they asked Gray to "Come up the road with us." (R9-10). After going a way with them, they said it was not Wincanton "but the camp at Cucklington they were going to." They then asked if Gray "knew of any women or WAAFs about" and Gray replied in the negative. As they went down the road past a hayrick, they asked Gray to "Come out behind the hayrick with us." He refused but they "kept on about it." Harrington told Gugliotta to take Gray’s bicycle, which he did without protest from Gray who "didn’t want to make a row." Gugliotta was riding the bicycle as Constable Charles Standfield came along on his bicycle and told Gugliotta to turn his lights on, at which Gugliotta got off and walked. Gray said he didn’t want to go any farther but accused insisted that he continue, and as they got near to
- 2 - ( )
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(253)
camp they told him, "You better come over here -with us." Gray locked his bicycle on the gate and went over to the field as he "didn't want to refuse." Harrington, according to Gray's version of the incident:
"took out his penis and told me to suck it."
"I did not suck it long. Then he told me to play with it with my hands which I did until some stuff came out. After that he put his penis away. He told me to take my trousers down before playing with his penis. After the stuff came out, he went back for the other one. Vfhen the other one came, he wanted me to do it. I refused.
He said 'Do you want me to do you in.' I heard someone' coming down the road. I ■ started calling for help and running away.
I never saw any more of them. I went straight to Police Officer Standfield's house and told him what had happened. He put on his boots and came down the read with me. When we got there, the accused had gone. When we got to the bike, the two tires were slashed. The tires were cut and the front lamp gone." (RIO).
After Gray had finished with-Harrington, both accused told Gray to take Gugliotta's penis in his hand. Gray started to play with Gugliotta's penis, but refused to put it in his mouth (RIG-12). He identified both accused at Cucklington Camp the following day (Rll).	. .
Constable Charles Standfield, No, 12 Bourton, Dorset, first saw the two accused on the main road at Bourton, Dorset, about 10:L0 p.m. on 13 September. One was riding a bicycle without lights and one was walking with Gray. It was fairly light. Standfield slowly rode up on his bicycle, spoke to the man riding with no lights on his bicycle, who dismounted and apologized and Standfield rode away; He "couldn't definitely identify than as these (the accused) two men" (R13). ' Standfield had known Gray for years. Later that evening at 11:10 p.m. he opened his door in response to loud knocking and saw Gray "in a very distressed condition", who told him "I have been assaulted by two American soldiers. My bicycle is along the road and I am afraid to go and fetch it. Come with me." Standfield dressed, went to the gateway of a farm field owned by a Mr. Puddy, and saw a locked bicycle chained to the gate. Both tires were slashed. He searched several fields for the soldiers but found no trace of them except the marks where the dew on the grass had been disturbed (RlL). The next day Gray was taken to the camp at Cucklington in company with Constables Standfield and King, arriving about noon. They went to where the men were having their mid-day meal and Gray identified both accused. • Each accused made and signed the statement "I know nothing about it" after Standfield had "charged them with committing an offense of gross indecency and cautioned them". These statements were received in evidence as EX. "A", the defense stating there was no objection thereto (RlU).
- 3 -
’CONFIDENTIAL
C0NFMT1M
(254)
Constable Thomas King, Dorset, identified both accused as the men picked out by Gray at the time the men were coming to their meal at the camp at Cucklington (R15-16-).
Herrick Higson, Agent, Criminal Investigation Division, APO £11, identified Harrington who made a statement to him on 21* September 19k2>, after Higson had duly warned him of his rights in regard to making such a statement. It was received in evidence as Ex, "B", read to the court (R17) and is as follows:
"On 13 September 19U3, I wan on official pass, I left my camp at about 1900 hours with Gugliotta of my organization, we were going to visit ZEALE.
The first villiage we stopped in was a small place just out of camp on the way to ZEALE, we were going to stop in a pub, "The Rising Sun", but we didn't. We asked some people the way to ZFAT.E and they • told us. We then walked to ZEALE, arriving there about 20l*5 hours. We went into the "Bell and Crown"
' pub. We were .the only American soldiers in the pub with Breeches and Boots on, there were other American soldiers there but they had slacks. While we were in this pub we met 3 WAAFS. We all had about 1* beers a piece, then we left with the WAAFS sometime before closing time. We were in the pub for about an hour. We walked mthe,WAAFS down to their camp, when we got to tne/camp we talked to the girls for about 10 minutes. We left the WAAFS and started walking towards camp.
At about 22l£ hours, after we have left the WAAFS, while walking back to our camp, we met a fellow, an English civilian, coming towards us on a bicycle. As he was riding past us we yelled a.t him, "Is this the way back .to camp."
He turned his bicycle around and came up to' us.
We were walking along -and he was riding his bicycle beside us. We asked him where all the women were in town. He told us there were not any women in town,- and then he asked us, what we wanted women for. When he asked us this I had a good idea he was "Queer". He got off his bicycle and started walking along with us. I knudged GUGLIOTTA and he took a ride on the kid's bicycle. I asked the kid if he ever 'got down ta it', he replied, 'either way'. I asked him what he meant and he said he didn't mind which way he took it. About this time a police officer stopped GUGLIOTTA riding a bicycle because it didn't have the lights on. GUGLIOTTA then started walking with us.
CONFIDENTIAL
(255)
The kid suggested he knew a place where we could be off the road. He locked his bicycle on a gate post. I told. GUGLIOTTA to stay at the gate, while I wenfyOSlto the field with the kid. We got about 10 or 15 yards into the field when he dropped his pants and turned around, back to me. I asked him what he wanted, and he said 'Go ahead*, I replied, 'No, you'll have to go down on it'. I didn't have to ask him the second time, he just grabbed hold of my penis and started sucking on it. I didn't shoot in his .mouth but pulled back from him and 'Come' on the ground. I said I would send GUGLIOTTA down to him. I started to walk away and when I looked back, I saw the kid masterbating.
I went back to the gate where GUGLIOTTA was and told him the kid might want you. to "Brown" him.
I was about 5 yards away when GUGLIOTTA got to the kid, GUGLIOTTA, had his penis out, I don't know whether the kid started to "Blow" him or not. The kid got scared and started to yell,, running up to the road. The kid ran past me and I told him to be quiet but he kept on running, it looked like the kid was throwing a fit.
GUGLIOTTA and I went up oh the road and were iaughing about it. When we got on the road we saw a British Sailor. The sailor wanted to know what the yelling was about, we told him that it was one of the fellows of our unit who didn't want to go back to camp. The sailor went away.
We saw the kid's bicycle so we went up to it,
GUGLIOTTA cut the front tire and I cut the rear.
GUGLIOTTA then threw the' front light away. We went back to camp arriving there at about 2330 hours.
During the time we were with the kid, he seemed to want to 'Blow' us, and it wasn't necessary to use any force on him. The kid appeared to be a real 'Queer', and liked it.
I have read the foregoing statement on 3- pages and it is true. "
SIGNED: THOMAS M. HARRINGTON.
I have read my statement of 3 ■ pages and it is true.
SIGNED:________________
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 2ii of September 19h3. EDWARD EDGERTON.
Summary Court. (Ex.B).
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(256) _
Charles J. Miller, Agent, Criminal Investigation Division Detachment, Headquarters, SBS, APO $19, identified .both accused (R17) and also identified a statement given him by GUGLIOTTA after he had been ■warned of his rights, which statement was also admitted in evidence, with consent of defense, as Ex. "C" (Rl8). The statement was read to the court and was in part as follows:
After walking a short ways down the road we met a boy riding a bicycle towards us.
We asked him if this was the right way back to camp. He stopped. We asked him ■ where all the girls were in this town. He said there were no girls here, and what did we want with girls. We walked away and he turned and walked with us. Diring the walk we hinted around about him giving us a blew job and he said *he didn't mind.' He also told us he knew a good plaice. He took us down to the field chained his bicycle to the fence and then Harrington^and the ’fellow went over the fence and into the field. They stayed there about $ or 10 minutes then Harrington came back and I went into the field, Harrington followed me. ' When I got in the field I asked the fellow for a 'blow job' and he said 'no'.
At the time I saw him, he had his pants up. I then took the fellow by. the shoulder and said,
•Go ahead.' He then pulled away started to scream and then run.
We ran the other way, jumped over the fence and at this time saw a sailor. We walked down the road a short ways then walked back to the bicycle and I cut the front tire and Harrington cut the rear tire, I then grabbed the front light and threw it away,	•
We then walked back to camp and got there, about'11:30, P.M.
During the whole time we were with the fellow we did not force him in any way and he was perfectly willing to 'suck us off' in fact he told us he didn't mind:	He	is	also	the	one	that
picked the pltce for us to go. While up in the field I was only with him about' two minutes.
I have had the above statement read to me and it is true.»
WITNESS:
PVT. ROLAND. HELL. •
PRISON CLERK. .
SIGNED: ANTHONY u. GUGLIOTTA.
(EX.C).
- 6 - .
CONFIDENTIAL
iJNFIDENTIAL
(257)
U. No -witnesses or evidence were produced on behalf of accused who, after having their rights to make a statement in court fully explained to them, elected to remain silent.
5.	"Sodomy	consists	of	sexual connection
with any brute animal, or in sexual connection, by rectum or by mouth, by a man with a human being. Penetration alone is sufficient Proof:- That the accused had sexual connection with a certain brute animal or had sexual connection by rectum or by mouth with a certain human being, as alleged in the	,
specification " (MCM 1928, par.lL9k,
. p.177).
That Harrington actually did commit sodomy as charged is shown by his own admission as well as by the testimony of Gray. Carnal knowledge per os is a crime under the 93rd Article of War (CM ETO 339, Gage}
CM ETO 9k$, Garrison).
An attempt to commit a crime is an act done with intent to commit that particular crime, and forming a part of a series of acts which will apparently, if not interrupted by circumstances independent of the doer's will, result in its actual commission. (Clark.) (MCM 1928, par.132,p.190).
Gugliotta went into the field with Gray, took him by the shoulder and said, "Go ahead." Gray took Gugliotta*s penis in his hand but refused to put it in his mouth even when Gugliotta threatened to "do him in". Only Gray's refusal to submit to Gugliotta's wishes and his subsequent flight from the scene, prevented the actual crime of sodomy from being committed. The attempt to commit the crime of sodomy by Gugliotta is clearly shown by his own admission as well as by Gray's testimony.
Each accused admitted slashing a tire on the bicycle and Gugliotta admitted throwing away the front light. The actual monetary damage to the bicycle is not proved but the court is legally justified in assuming frcm the evidence that the damage was in some substantial amount less than $20.00.
6.	The maximum penalty prescribed by the Table of Maximum Punishments 1928 Manual for Courts-Martial for the offense of sodomy is dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for five years. "•###* An attempt which is not separately listed in the Table of Maximum Punishments is subject only to the same limit of punishment as is the offense attempted, if the latter is listed." (Par.U02(l), Dig.Ops.JAG. February 19U3). An attempt to commit sodomy is therefore punishable as if the crime had been committed.
As Harrington is less than 31 years old with a sentence of not more than ten years, confinement in a Federal correctional institution or
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(258)
reformatory is authorized (Sec.II, par»6g, Cir«72. Hq,. ETOUSA,
9 September 191*3 j War Department Circular No.291, 10 November 19l*3, sec,V,3a).
Penitentiary confinement is not authorized under AW 1*2 for an attempt to commit sodomy (1912-191*0 Dig.Ops.JAG. Par*399(2),p.2l*6). Confinement as designated is authorized.
7.	The charge sheet shows:
Gugliotta is 23 years of age. ■ He was inducted into active military service 20 January 191*2 and assigned to 102nd Cavalry (Mecz), 30 March 191*2.	t
Harrington is 21* years of age, was inducted into active military service 6 January 191*1, 102nd Cavalry (H-Mecz): redesignated 6 April 19l*2, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz).
Neither accused had any prior service.	'
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The -Board of Review is' of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.
- 8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(259)
TO. Branch Office of TJAG with ETOUSA. ^ 0 DEC 1943 To2 Commanding General, V Corps, ETOUSA., APO 30$, U.8.. Army.
1.	In the case of Private ANTHONY J. GUGLIOTTA (3220323U) and of Private THOMAS M. HARRINGTON (2021^628), both of Troop C,
I02nd Cavaliy (Mecz), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentences, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War $0you now have authority to order the execution of the sentences.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this
office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 991. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets, at the end of the orderi (ETO 591).	'1
4. C.
McNEIL,
.(Brigadier General, united States ’’ '(Assistant Judge A^vocate.Generali
CONFIDENTIAL
f
#(261)
