#(349)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD'OF REVIEW ETO 1057
united STAT e's )
) * ) )
private MICHAEL J. REDMOND ) (12065644)* Headquarters	)
and Service Company, 876th	)
Airhorhe £nginedr Aviation ) Battalion.	“	)
)
17 MAR 1944
NINTH AIR FORCE.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 472, APO 696, 11 November 1943* Sentencej Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for one' year. 29l2th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 5°8» U. S. Army.
OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings end sentence in part. The record has now been examined, by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion; to the Assistant JUdge Advocate General id charge of said Branch Office.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification;
CHARGE; Violation of the 64th Article of War.
• Specification; In that Private Michael J. Redmond 1 Headquarters and Service .Company, 876th Airborne Engineer Aviation Battalion, having received a lawful command from First Lieuten-dnd SpencCr W.‘Truman, Commanding Officer,
, Headquarters and Service Company, 876th Airborne Engineer Aviation Battalion, his superior Officer, to report once each half hour (£) to the Charge of Quarters between eighteen hundred hours and‘twenty two hundred hours for seven (7) days commencing on or about October 22, 1943 a3 Company Punishment, did at USAAF '
472, APO 696, U.S.Army, on or about October 22,
1943 wilfully disobey the sane.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(350)
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty*of the Charge and Specification. Evidence wAs introduced of twO previous convictions b^ summary court, each for absence without leave in violation of Article of War 6l, for 79 days and for ten days respectively. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct fof one year. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended the execution of the dishonorable discharge until tne soldier's release from confinement and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U.3.Army a& the place of confinement.
The result of trial was promulgated in'General Court-Martial Orders No, 7&, Headquarters'Ninth Air Force, AFO 696, U.S.Army dated 26 November 1943*	‘
5* Evidence for the prosecution established the following factsi
Accused had been restricted to camp by his company commander, First Lieutenant Spencer W, Truman, during the week previous to 22 October 1943 for the reason that he was suffering from trench mouth (R24,.25)i He was absent from reveille formation of his company at'0730 hours on 22 October 1943* " Upon being informed of such fact the company commander required accused to report to him (H10,l6), When accused at about 0800 hours appeared before Lieutehant Truman the latter asked him why he had not been at reveille, to which he replied "that his mouth hurt and he didn't feel like it," The officer answered that he should have arisen anyway and had his mouth treated by the doctor. Then he noticed lipstick on accused's face and asked him if he had been to town the night before, and in reply accused admitted such fact (RIO,16),	Upon thus accidentally discovering that accused had broken the
previously imposed restriction which was about to expire. Lieutenant Truman gave him a direct order restricting him to the company area from the tims of the order and directing him to report to Charge 6f Quarters in the orderly room every half, hour between the period of.1800 and 2200 hours each evening (R8,10,13,15,16,18),	Prior to this conversation with accused. Lieutenant
Truman had no knowledge of the breach of restriction (R24), The order was given as oo'mpany punishment under Article of War 104. Lieiitenant Truman did not at that time inform him of the duration of the restriction. Neither did he read to him Article of War 24 (RIO), nor state ‘that he proposed to punish him under Article of War 104, nor notify him of his right to appeal to higher authority (Rll-12), Sometime during the morning of 22 October, after the . order was given to accused, Lieutenant Truman drafted'a company punishment order under Article of War 104, • The First Sergeant prepared it in final form The latter called accused into the Orderly Room and presented it to him. Accused read it and said nothing, but hesitated for a time before signing the sheet. Thereafter the commander placed it in the company punishment book (R9 12-13, 17-18), The sheet (Def»Ex,A), dated 22 October 1943» reads*
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(351)
■DISCIPLINARY ACTION UJDER THE 104TH ARTICIE OF WAR The following dtiaciplinary action has been taken under the 104th Article of War in the ca^e ofi
NAM Redmond, Michael J. RAKE Private ASN#*
12065644	!
OFFENSE* Leaving Station without pass or permission,
DATE OF OFFENSE* October 21 1943•
PUNISHMENT AWARDED* Restricted to the Company Area for a period of One (i) week and to report to the C.Q,. every half hour eacn nignt from 4 1800 hrs to 2200 hrs,
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PUNISHMENT* October 22 1943.
i
/s/ Spencer W, Truman Commander,
/t/ SPENCER W. TRUMAN,
*	1st Lt, CE,
Commanding.
''STATEMENT OF SOLDIER
I havfe been advised as to my rights in * either taking company punishment or a Sumnary Court Martial and I desire to take Company Punishment as outlined above.
NAME * /a/ Michael J, Redmond
/t/ MICHAEL J. HEEMOND, Pvt, 12065644.*
Lieutenant Truman testified that the punishment did not taka effect until after the punishment sheet'was signed. He did not talk to accused concerning his right of appeal from the punishment nor was such-right of appeal brought to his attention (R13).	-	'
J	*	»	J	.	_	'
First Sergeant Joseph A. Mroz heard Lieutenant Truman give the verbal order to accused. He was Charge of Quarters on the evening of
22	October and was on duty in the Orderly Room from 173° to 2230 hours.
Accused did not report to him (R15).	1	‘
Thp next day, 23 October, accused again appeared before Lieutenant Truman sometime after 073° hours. He was asked why he had not reported the night before as ordered. He replied "that he just didn’t want to report*, but gave no other explanation. He was informed by Lieutenant Truman that he had been given a direct order which was to be 'obeyed and was asked if he/understood what it meant to refuse to obey it. Accused replied in the affirmative. The company commander explained to him what it meant to disobey a lawful order'and ordered him to report again on the night of
23	October (R21-22).' Lieutenant Truman declared that accused thoroughly
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(352)
CONFIDENTIAL
understood him (-R13)» hut he did not attempt to find out why accused refused to obey the order* because he had no "way of knowing whether he stayed in camp or what he did** It was possible.for accused to leave the post without a pass (**2jJ,	.
' On cross examination* Lieutenant Truman testified that he had known accused since he joined the organization in July'1943, that he had been a fairly good soldier and had "worked all right exeept a few times when he didn't get up for reveille*(Rl3),	-
4* At the conclusion of prosecution's case in chief, the defense moved for findings of not guilty on the grounds the record failed to prove the specif! cation'but showed that the alleged order was given as punishment under Article of War 104* and that the requirements of the regulations thereunder (See MOI.1928, par.107, pp.104-105) had not been met* It w&s argued therefore the order was null anl void (RI8-I9).
The court denied the motion (R20)# After further testimony by Lieutenant Truman* recalled by the prosecution, the defense renewed its motion, which the court again denied (R23).	*
5* Accused elected to remain silent (R20)*	*	■
Lieutenant Truman was also called as witness for the defense(R23), He admitted that when he spoke to accused at' 0800 hours on 22 October, he did not warn him of his rights under Article of War 24* Before giving the verbal order, he did not tell him that he proposed to administer punishment under Article of War 104» nor inform him of his right to elect trial by'' court-martial instead of such punishment* Accused signed the company pun-ishmeht sheet after witness had given the verbal order but before he actually gave him any punishment* His restriction did not become effective at the time of the order because he was working in the area 'at the time and could not leave it in any case# Accused had been restricted by witness for the week previous to the alleged offense because he had 'trench mbutb, and he was thus restricted before the imposition of company punishment* Until Lieutenant Truman talked to him on the morning, of 22 October he did not know that accused had broken his prior restriction, so his question as to whether he had been to town was not for the purpose of getting evidence as a basis for punishing him (R24»23)*	.
6* The elements of proof of the offense of willful disobedience of the lawful command of a superior officer in violation of Article of War 64 are j	'
"(a) That the accused received a certain command from a certain officer as alleged;
(b) that such officer was the accused's	'■
superior officer; and (c) that the accused willfully disobeyed such command. "(MCM, 1928, par, 134.b» p.149 )•
1 1|	«»
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(353)
Accused received a direct verbal order (which was reduced to writing and served on him before it became effective) from one he knew to be his superior officer, restricting him to the company area and requiring him to report once each half hour to the Charge of 'Quarters of his company between certain hours on certain successive days commencing on the day of the order. He' willfully disobeyed on the first 6f those days the part of the order requiring him to report half hourly.to the Charge of Quarters.
The question is whether this order was a lawful "command" within the contemplation of the 64th Article of War. The determination of that question involves consideration of three subsidiary questions: (1) whether the order was a legal order under the 104th Article of War, (2) whether tne punishment imposed wa3 legal, permissible punishment, and,(3) whether the subject-matter of the order brings it within the contemplation of the 64th Article of War. If the answer to any question be in the negative, the record must be held legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of the charge of a violation of Article of War 64.
i	*	.	'
7.	' The evidence is clear that the order requiring accused to.report to the Charge of Quarters during stated hours was given as part of and in aid of the order of restriction to specified limits, and the whole was intended as conpany punishment imposed upon accused tinder Article of War 104 for the breach of the prior administrative restriction imposed because accused was suffering from trench mouth*
The first paragraph of that Article providesi
I
■Under such regulations as the President, may.prescribe, the commanding officer of any detachment, company, or higher conmand may, for minor offenses, inpose disciplinary punishments upon persons of his command without the intervention of a court-martial, unless the accused demands trial by court-martial	...
The offense committed by accused in leaving his station without pass or permission, in violation of the administrative restriction, evidence of aggravated circumstances being absent, was a minor one (MCM, 1928, par.105, p.lQ3). "Restriction to certain specified, limits for not exceeding one week" (AW 104) is specifically included in authorized disciplinary punishment. Both the offense; and the punishment, were therefore properly within the purview of the 104th Article of War.
8.	The regulations prescribed by the President for procedure under the Article are contained in MCM, 1928, par.107, pp*104-lQ5«
“ 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(354)
CONFIDENTIAL
"The commanding officer, after ascertaining to his satisfaction, by such investigation as he deems necessary, that an offense cognizable by him under A.W.104 has been committed by p member of his conznand, will notify such member of the nature of such . offense • * *, and inform him that he proposes to impose punishment under, A.W.104 as to such offense unless trial by court-martial for the same is demanded,
With reference to each offeifhe as t<^ which no demand for trial by court-martial is made, the commanding officer may proceed to impose punishment. The accused will be notified of the punishment imposed as soon as practicable and at the same time will be informed of his right to appeal."
In support of its motion for findings of ngt guilty (RI8-I9), defense contended that the order was null and void because the following requirements of the regulations under Article of War 104 were not mett (a) warning accused of his rights under Article of War 24, (b) notification to him that punishment under Article of War 104 was proposed, (c) notification to him of his right to elect trial by court-martial in lieu of such punishment, and (d) notification to him of his right to appeal from the imposition thereof to the next superior authority. Defense argued that the order was illegal on the further grounds (e) that two kinds of punishment were ordered without apportionment and (f) that the type of punishment ordered was not authorized under the article. It was also argued that the evidence failed to show willful disobedience* These arguments will be considered in the order mentioned.
.	(a)	The	evidence	is clear that accused was not warned of his
rights under Article of War 24 (RIO,24). That article provides*
■No witness before a military court, . commission, court of inquiry, or board, or before any officer conducting an investigation, or before any officer, military or civil, designated to taka a deposition to be read in evidence before a military court, commission, court of inquiry, or board, or before.an officer conducting an investigation, shall be compelled to incriminate himself or to answer any question the answer to which may tend to incriminate him, or to answer any question not material to the issue when such answer might tend to degrade him."
I
— 6 **
CONFIDENTIAL
(355)
CONFIDENTIAL
The source of this provision is the following portion of the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitutions '	*	-
■No person * * * shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself"
•	•	i
The prohibition is clearly directed against "the use of physical or moral compulsion to extort communications" from a witness before one of the named bodies or officers*(MCM, I928, par,122b,- pp.129-130; Dig.Op’.
JAG 1912-1940, sec.381, p,191-192; Holt v. United States,218 U.S. 245,
54 L.Ed.1021), It obviously has no application to accused's statements made during hi3 conversation on the morning of 22 October with Lieutenant Truman, who had called accused before him to discover the reason for his failure to stand reveille formation. At that time the commander had no knowledge of accused's violation of the restriction previously imposed oh him. * Tell-tale lipstick prints on accused's face prompted Lieutenant Truman to inquire as to whether acfcused had been to town the previous evening,' Accused admitted such fact. Considering accused's admission of his breach of restriction as a confession it was freely and voluntarily given and was free from compulsion or promise of leniency. The practice*of informing an accused of his rights tinder the 24th Article of-War prior to obtaining his confession is not mandatory in the sense that failure to give such warning forbids the admission of the confession-in evidence. Such practice is a practical method of insuring that an accused understands"his constitu-ional privilege not to give evidence against himself. If it is shown that the confession was the voluntary act of an accused, the test of its admissibility is met notwithstanding the fact that the 24th Article of War was not read or explained to accused (CM ETO 397, Shaffer). There is no legal substance to this contention,
(b), (®) Prior to the*effective time for compliance with the order to report, accused read and signed the company punishment sheet which recorded his punishment (E17), This sheet clearly apprised him both of the "Disciplinary Action under the 104th Article of War" and of his right to elect trial by court-martial in lieu thereof (Def»Ex.A).
The prior verbal order was correctly recorded on this sheet; which noti*. fied accused for the first time that his punishment was to continue for one week. It was thereby integrated or merged into the written order which became the best evidence*of its substance (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents - Reprint - p.322). The punishment sheet notified accused of his rights to demand trial by court-martial. His written acknowledgment of such notice and of his desire to take company punishment stands unimpeached. The failure of Lieutenant Truman to notify accused of his rights at the time of giving the verbal order was rendered harmless by the subsequent written notice to accused.
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(356)	-	-
(d) The record is clear that accused was not notified of his right to appeal to superior authority in the event he deemed his punishment unjust or disproportionate to the offense (Rl2,13), There is no Indication in the record that the punishment imposed was in fact unjust, disproportionate or otherwise improper or thax an appeal -if taken by accused as authorized would for any reason have been successful. The failure to notify him of his right to appeal from the punishment imposed therefore did not result in injury to any of his substantial rights, and-thus-did not invalidate the punishment or the order imposing it (MCM, 1928, par,105, p.104).	.
This conclusion is not at variance with the recent holdings of the Board of Review in CM ETQ 1015 Branham, and CM ETO 1366 English* It was there held that the requirements of Article of War 104'that * accused be given the option of court-martial trial and that he be informed of his right to appeal* *
■are mandatory, and the failure of the; officer imposing the punishment to notify the accused of his rights nullifies the order of punishment and renders it illegal. (Dig.OjsJAG 1912-1940, sec.
462 (5), p«370). *' * •• In the present case the record of trial is completely silent with reference to compliance with any of the requirements of the article and indicates rather clearly that no compliance was attempted. * * *• The order of punishment was, therefore, illegal."
(CM ETO 1015, Branham. par*6, p.8).
...	t	...
It is manifest that in the Branfran case total noncompliance with the requirements injured the substantial rights of the accused, which were not waived*	Particularly,is	this made plain by the fact that the
order there was to perform the military duty of going on a hike and was thus clearly improper as punishment. Here, on the other hand, there was sufficient compliance with requirements to prevent injury to any of accused's substantial rights.
*	...	i	“
- (e) Defense 's next-point is based upon an opinion of It* Judge Advocate General (JAG 250.3,. 31 Dec I924, Dig.0p.JAG 1912-1940, sec.’462
(4)*IP*369-370) holding that the 104.th Article of War may not reasonably be construed to permit company commanders to impose for the same offenee a combination of two or more punishments, each in the maximum afcount authorized, and thax if it is desired to adjudge two or more forms 6f punishment for the same offense, there must be .an apportionment* One important basis for this holding is evidently the analogy of the requirement of apportionment of punishments adjudged by summary court sentences involving deprivation‘of liberty (MCM, 1928, par.17 pp.11-12). Defense asserted that there were two punishments imposed upon accusedt (1) restriction and (2) *the extra duty of reporting*, that both may not be
- 8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(357)'
imposed fur the maximum period of one week without apportionment and that, Since,"no 1 apportionment -was made, "the punishment is void"(Rl9).
_	4	i
The Staff Judge .Advocate's Review of this record, 26 Ifov 1943, p.2, appropriately remarksi	*
i
■However, the requirement of reporting every half hour was incidental to the . punishment of restriction'and was not a separate and additional punishment, .
It was in effect merely a method of carrying out and effectuating the punishment, analogous to the situation	,
*	•	where-a soldier would.be given a phys-
ical duty to perform as punishment and . * • then told how he was to perform it."
The time during which accused was to report suggests strongly that Lieutenant Truman was cognizant of the fact that it is dinring the evening hours that breaches of restrictions most frequently occur and he intentionally required accused to report semi-hourly during the evening in order to circumvent disobedience of. the restriction* The.periodical reporting therefore provided an effective means of ascertaining whether accused was complying with the restriction order and was not in and of Itself a punishment* It would be ineffectual.unless required conaurrently with the restriction* The fixing of the period.for reporting at every half hour far a duration of four hours each evening for seven days was wholly consistent with the ultimate purpose of the disciplinary action and it was not unreasonable* There.was but.one punishment imposed upon accused, viz* restriction* Such restriction consisted of (a) remaining in camp for seven days and (b) reporting at half-hour intervals during the four’evening hours. The latter (b).prescribed the.prpcess by which the restriction was to operate. Two punishments were therefore not imposed*
The rule requiring apportionment of punishments has no application.
(f) Defense counsel also asserted that ■reporting every half hour is not considered fatigue* and that not being a particular punishment authorized by Article of War 104,or the regulations thereunder it is illegal (R19). As pointed out above, the duty required was incidental to the principal punishment of restriction to limits and essentially a part thereof. Punishments described-in the article are not Intended to be exclusive of all others, but a punishment not.mentioned therein in order to be proper must be similar in nature to those specifically named (JAG 250.3, 13 Jul 1921, Dig.Op.JAG 1912-40, sec.462(4)» P»3&9)v Ttia duty of report- . ing periodically is not only similar in nature to restriction to. limits but,
as above indicated, is embraced therein*
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
In view of the foregoing-considerations, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the order of restriction which included the incidental requirement that accused make periodic reports to Charge of Quarters during four evening hours was legal.
The Board of Review is also of the opinion that the evidence clearly establishes willful disobedience of the order by accused. He declared to‘the company commander "that he just didn't want to report", _ This statement and attitude displays an intentional defiance of authority • and its culpatory effect is self-evident (MCU, 1928, par*134b, pp,148-1491 CM-KTO 1366 English, supra),	”
(g).The final question for determination is whether the order was a "command" within the contemplation of Article of War 64 or an order directing the performance of a "mere routine duty,"
"Failure to comply with the general or standing orders of a command, or with the Army Regulations, is not an offense ;	■*	under	this	article, but under A.W.96}
and bo of a nonperformance by a_sub-*	:	ordinate.of any mere routine duty."
(MCM, 1928, par,134^* p.149) (Underscoring supplied).
See also Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents - Reprint - p*573 ar^ Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par,152, p,187» citing as an instance of a disorder and neglect by an officer under Article of War 98 "disobedience of standing‘orders or of orders of an officer when the offense is not chargeable under a specific article" (Underscoring supplied). The example is applicable in principle to the case of an enlisted man.
Although the fact that the order was to be executed in future does not require that disobedience thereof be charged under the 96th ■ rather than the 64th Article of War, neither does the mere fact that a specific order was given by a commissioned officer require that disobedience thereof be charged under the 64th article (TAG.250,4* 17 Tul 1918, Op,TAG 1918, Vol.II, pp.566.567). The following language from the immediately cited opinion is relevant to the discussions /
"In the case presented the soldier is charged with having disobeyed an order in future 'to be present at roll call.' * * * he can be tried and punished for failure to attend} if the failure occurred under aggravated circumstances, these may properly be alleged for the purpose of increasing the punishment,* * * the charge should not be laid as a violation of the sixty-fourth article of war, for, as indicated by the Manual, a simple offense. such as absence from a prescribed roll call.
-1CV.
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(359)
can not properly be converted into a capital offense under the sixty-fourth article of war by the mere addition of a specific'order to ' attend the same. The giving of a specific order with a view of bringing the case within the sixty-fourth article of war is impliedly prohibited under the circumstances in question and, regardless of whether the disobedience was wilful and intentional, the offense should be laid under the ninety-sixth article of war, the aggravating circumstances being properly alleged if desirable.11 (Underscoring supplied).
The performance of the duty ordered here as incidental to the restriction to the company area viz, t® report-half-hourly to the Charge of Quarters, so far as the record shows, was not required by any regulations or general standing orders of the accused's organization, nor is there any*evidence in the record that the punishment of restriction automatically carried with it the duty of periodically reporting to the Charge of Quarters, Such reporting, however, is a usual and satisfactory mode of informing commanding officers though-out the Army that restricted soldiers are complying with their restriction* It is a reversal of an older well established Army custom whereby the Charge of Quarters himself made- a periodical check of restricted soldiers to assure their presence within prescribed limits. Although it* may not be a typical "mere routine duty" within the meaning of the above quoted provision of ‘the Manual for Courts-Martial, the Board of Review is of the opinion that it.is of the same general quality and nature as a "routine" duty, insofar as the applicability of the 64th Article of War is concerned, and that an order to report periodically in conjunction with restriction is therefore not a "command", within the contemplation of that Article,
The fact that in the absence of Lieutenant Truman's specific command accused was under no duty to report to the Charge of Quarters during his restriction does not bring the command within the article. The disobedience of the command was essentially a "simple offense", as would have been a breach of the very restriction of which it was a part. The maximum punishment for breach of restriction is confinement at hard labor for one month and forfeiture of two-thirds pay per month for a like period (MCM, 1928, par.lO^c, p,100). The principle of the above quoted opinion applies* a simple offense cannot properly be charged as a capital offense under the (J^b Article of War merely-because-a commissioned .officer gave a specific order to report, which order accused willfully disobeyed. Nevertheless, accused's deliberate, contumacious failure to report to the Charge of Quarters even once was reprehensible and is punishable under Article of War 96* As stated in CM ETO 1366 Englah, p»3»
-11-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
•Such conclusion does not relieve accused from culpability. * * *. His conduct in ignoring his commander's control and authority displayed such a spirit of insubordination and defiance as to constitute a disorder prejudicial to good order and military discipline under the 96th Article of War(MCM,1928, par*134b, p.litfj MCM, 1921, par.415. p.3551 Winthrop's Military Law 4 -Precedents.-‘Reprint - p*575 and footnote 26),"
In the opinion of the Board of Review, accused's deliberate disobedience of the legal order of his commanding officer to perform the duty of periodically reporting to the Charge of Quarters constituted a disorder in violation of Article of War 96 and the record is legally sufficient to support so much of the court's findings as involve guilt of such an offense* '
'Neither the designation of a wrong article,1 nor the failure to designate any article is ordinarily materiel, provided the specification allegeb an offense of which courts- • martial have jurisdiction* (MCM, 1928, par*
.28, p,l8)*- ;	:	.
* . ’	'	-7	*	>-
Furthermore, it is inconceivable -that any substantial rights of the accused were injuriously, affected by this error in pleading, within the meaning of Article of War 37 nor was he misled thereby* . He was properly found guilty of the Specification, which clearly alleged a military offense, although the Charge should have been designated a violation of the 96th rather, than .the 64th Article of War*	-	_
* ••••■*	*
9* The offense in violation of the 96th Article of War of which accused has been proven guilty, is most closely related to that of breach of restriction* Accordingly the sentence is excessive to the extent that it exceeds confinemsntiat hard labor for one month and forfeiture of two-thirds of his pay for a like period (MCM, 1928, par*104c.» p*100),	_
10* The denial by the court of the defense motion for findings of not guilty both originally and upon renewal (Rl8-20,23) was proper,
•If there be any substantial evidence which, » together with all reasonable inferences there-from and all applicable presumptions, fairly tends to establish every essential element of an offense charged or included in any specification to which the motion is directed, the motion aw to such specification will not be granted*'^MCM, 1928, par.71d, p»56j CM ETO 527*
Astrella);	-
-12-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(361)
The prosecution prior to the motions had introduced substantial evidence fairly tending to establish every element of the offense of willful disobedience of the lawful command of a superior officer (in violation of Article of War 96)* the offense charged in the Specification, although under an inappropriate Article of War.
11.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 20 years of age, had no prior service and enlisted at New York City 19 May 1942 for the duration plus six months.
12.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. For tne reasons stated, however, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of the Charge and Specification as involve findings of guilty of the disobedience of the order charged, in violation of Article of War 96 and legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as provides for confinement at hard labor for one month and forfeiture of two-thirds of accused's pay for
a like period.
Advocate
Advocate
(SICK IN QUARTERS)
Judge Advocate
■13-
OONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind*
TO, Branch Office TJAG», with ETOUSA. 1 8 MAR 1944 TOj Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army,
1, Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 5o£ as amended hy Act 20 August I937 (50 Stat, 724j 10 U.S.C. 1522) and as further amended hy Act 1 August 1942 (56 Stat, 732 j 10 U.S.C. 1522), is the record of trial in the case of Private MICHAEL J. REDMOND (12065644), Headquarters and Service Company, 876th Airborne Engineer Aviation Battal-
2,	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings of guilty of the Charge and Specification, except so much thereof, as involve findings of'guilty
of the disobedience of the order charged, in violation of Article of War 96, be vacated, that so much of the sentence as exceeds confinement at hard labor for one month and forfeiture of two-thirds of the soldier's pay for a like period be vacated, and that all rights, privileges and property of* which he has been deprived by virtue of those portions of the findings and sentence so vacated be restored,
3,	Inclosed is a forarof action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is a draft G<M0 for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the record of trial with required copies of GCLD.
3	Inclst
Incl.l Record of Trial Incl.2 Form of Action Incl,3 Draft GCMD
(Findings and sentence vacated in part in accordance with recommendation of the Assistant Judge Advocate General, GCIO 20, ETO, 2? Mar 1944)
ion.
Brig ad	.
Assistant Jud^e Advocate GenetiBiV
#(363)
