#(267)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations 1APO 871 .
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1400
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private WILLIAM J.	JOHNSTON )
(33266215), Cpmpany	“A",	)
39th Infantry.	)
17 FEB 1944
NINTH INFANTRY DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.I.I., convened at Cefalu, Sicily, 3 September 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 58th Article of War.
• Specification:	In	that Private William J. Johnston,
Company "A", 39th Infantry, did, at French North Africa, on or about July 8, 1943, desert the service of the United States, by absenting himself without proper leave from his organization located about 5 miles west of Bizerte,
French North Africa, with intent to avoid hazardous duty, to wit: "Action against the enemy", and did remain absent in desertion until he surrendered himself at the bivouac area, 39th Infantry, near Randazzo, Sicily, on or about August 17, 1943.
lie pleaded not guilty, and was found guilty of the Charge, and of the Specificatioruguilty, except the words, "the bivouac area, 39th Infantry, near Randazz<^%n •6b about August 17, 1943", and substituting therefor the words, "Setif, North Africa, on or about 16 July 1943", of the excepted word3, not guilty, and of the substituted ‘words, guilty. Evidence was
- 1 -
introduced of-.one previous conviction for absence without leave from camp area, drunkenness and disorderly conduct and failure to obey a lawful order in violation of-Articles of War 61 and 96. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 20 years. The reviewing authority approved only so much of the findings of guilty of the:Specification of the Charge and Charge as involved a finding of guilty^.of desertion at the time and place and under the circumstances alleged and terminated•in a manner not proven at the time and place alleged, approved the sentence, withheld the order directing the execution thereof pursuant to Article of War 502“, designated the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth,
Kansas as the place of confinement and ordered the prisoner held at Oran, Algeria, pending.further orders.
3.	The charge sheet shows that, accused is 36. years of age. He was . inducted at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania' on 3? May' 1942. £ie had no prior service.
A. tThe court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the' person and offense. Ho errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The. Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. The penalty for desertion committed in time of war is death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct (AW 58). Confinement in a United ..States .Disciplinary Barracks is authorized (AY/ 42)
2
1st Ind.
(269)
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 17 FEB 1944 TO: Commanding General, 9th Infantry Division, APO 9, U. S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private WILLIAM J.. JOHNSTON (3326621?), Company "A”, 39th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the^Board
of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty aid the sentence imposed by the court, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War $6^, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	Attention is invited,to the place of confinement designated, which •
should be changed to the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York (Cir. #210, Sec.VI, par.2a, lit September 19U3 as amended by Cir. #331, Sec.II, par.2, 21 December 19U3)-•	If you should suspend
execution of that portion of the sentence adjudging dishonorable discharge, then a disciplinary training center should be designated as the place of confinement.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO ll;00. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:
(ETO lljOO). 1
1
Brigadifer General, United States Army,-Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(271)
