#(221)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 709.
UNITED STATES )
I
)
Private HENRI (NMl) LAKAS	)
(34339722), 9th Airdrome	)
Squadron, VIII Air Support	)
Command.	)
15 SEP 1943
EIGHTH AB FORCE.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at USAAF Station #446, APO 638, 30 July 1943. Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures add confinement at hard labor for life. Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
' HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW R3TER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the. following charges and specifications:
CHARGE: Violation of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Henry (NMl) Lakas,
9th Airdrome Squadron, VIII Air Support Command, did, in the back drive of Stork House, at Lambourn, Berks, England, on or'about 4 July 1943, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Mary Frances Cullinane.
ADDITIONAL CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
(Disapproved by reviewing authority).
Specification:	(Disapproved by reviewing authority).
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of both charges and of the specifications thereunder. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such' place as the reviewing authority may direct for the • term of his natural life. The reviewing authority disapproved the findings of guilty of the Additional Charge and of the Specification thereunder.
- 1 -
OONFIDcNTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(222)
approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50£*
3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows that Maiy Cullinane, 26 years of age and a housemaid residing at Stork House, Lambourn, England, met accused on a public street in Lambourn about 10:00 p.m. 4- July 194-3•
They went into a field and sat down but left because horses were present. They then walked up the rear drive leading to Stork House and sat down on a bank (R8-9,14). Accused was "trying to get an intercourse" with her but Kiss Cullinane told him that she was not that kind of a girl. About 11:15-11:30 p.m. the girl wanted to go home but he pulled her down on the bank. When she screamed he took out a knife, held it on her and said that he would not let her go until he got what he wanted. They then had intercourse. During the act, accused’s left arm was around her neck and he held the knife in his left hand (R13) near her face. She received a slight cut. Kiss Cullinane did not consent to having intercourse but submitted because she feared he would kill her (RIO). Just as the sexual act was completed, a man walked up the drive and accused asked the girl "to stoop down". She refused, descended the bank and met the man who asked her what was wrong.
She replied "He has done everything to me. He had a knife to me" (RIO-ll). The man then told her to go home and she went home. That evening she made a date with accused for the following night, and because she was afraid of him, as she left the scene she told accused she would keep the date (R13-14-)• She then went to her own room at Stork House and saw that her underclothes were stained with blood. Within five or ten minutes after entering the house she went to the room of a Mrs. Marsh (R13), told her what‘had occurred and showed Mrs. Marsh her clothes (Rll). The following morning Miss Cullinane picked up on the bank an overseas hat which she gave to a police sergeant. She identified as hers a coat on the inside rear of which there were what appeared to be blood-stains (RIO,26-27).	After the occurrence
the girl washed her underclothes and the stains thereon disappeared (R28).
She had never indulged in sexual intercourse before (R14), and denied having had any sexual relations with soldiers of the station (R13).
On the night of 4- July Mr. Terence Athawes of Lambourn heard some screams as he was lying in bed. The screams were very loud, and sounded as if they were "stifled or muffled".	Athawes' bedroom window faced
directly up the drive to Stork House.	As the screams "went on for some
time" he dressed and walked up the drive. Miss Cullinane jumped off the bank followed by an American soldier who said "You are all right". Athawes asked the girl, who was crying, if she was all right and she replied "No, he has done everything to me. He has had a knife to my throat". Upon Athawes' request that he show his "pass book", the American soldier displayed his identity tags, but it was too dark to read them. Athawes told the girl to go home and told the soldier that he was taking him to the police. As they walked down the drive the soldier, swore "by Almighty God" that he had
CONFIDENTIAL
(223)
done nothing to the girl, which rather impressed Athawes who dropped the idea of taking him to the police. He made no report. The soldier returned to the bank for the declared purpose of finding his hat and a bottle of cider. Athawes went to bed. He later saw the soldier running down the drive (R16-17).
Mrs. Annie Marsh, a cook who resided at Stork House, Lambourn testified that late in the evening of 4-5 July, Miss Cullinane knocked at her bedroom door. She was crying, appeared "very agitated" and "in a terrible state". . Her clothes were bloodstained and	there was a	cut	on the left side
of her neck. She said	"«7ill you look what	a state I'm	in"	(R18-19). Over
objection of the defense, Mrs. Marsh testified that the girl said "Look what he's done to me". "Whatever can I do?" Asked if Miss Cullinane said that the soldier had produced a knife on her, Mrs. Marsh replied in the affirmative (R20). Mrs. Marsh had	been asleep and did	not look at	the	clock when she
was awakened. She was	of the opinion'that	the girl came to her room around
midnight (B19).
Mrs. Winifred Athawes of Lambourn heard piercing screams from the direction of the drive late in the evening of 4 July (R22). About midnight that evening, George Hailstone of Lambourn heard a scream coming from the direction of Stork House drive and later heard voices and people coming down the drive (R2l). Sarah White, also of Lambourn heard the clock strike 12:00 and was "dozing off" when she heard a "dreadful scream" and then "heard another which sounded muffled". The screams came from the direction of Stork House drive (R23).
Constance Morrison, a physician residing in Lambourn examined Liiss Cullinane on 7 July. The girl was "in a rather excitable condition". There were no bruises on her body, but there was a slight scratch on her heck.
There were slight lacerations on the lower part of her vagina which was slightly swollen and extremely tender. Ho hymen’was present, as it had been ruptured. In Dr. Morrison's opinion the rupture was fairly recent and there had been a recent intercourse. Although she was not prepared to state so definitely, it was also her opinion that this was the- first time that the girl had experienced Sexual intercourse. Fourteen days later. Dr. Morrison made a second examination, found a "fairly profuse discharge" and sent Miss Cullinane to Reading Hospital for a further examination. At the time of the trial the girl was suffering from an inflammatory condition of the vagina which "might be caused by several things" (RI4.-I6).
On 8 July Sergeant Rudolph Singhoffer, 9th Airdrome Squadron, was given a knife by accused which the latter drew from his fatigue uniform when taken into custody by the sergeant (R24). On 8 July after being "cautioned" by a Lieutenant Sacks, accused was shown a hat. He admitted before Sergeant Frederick Mortimore, a police sergeant stationed at Lambourn, that the hat was his. When shown a photograph of Miss Cullinane accused further admitted that he knew her. Sergeant Mortimer again "cautioned" accused and charged him with raping the girl. Accused replied "I deny that, but I did have an
(224)
CONFIDENTIAL
intercourse and she was willing” (R25). Detective Constable Herbert J. Snowley of Vantage examined the scene of the alleged crime and found "that quite a large area of the grass was flat, indicating that some person had layed and rolled on that piece of bank" (R26-2?). -The coat, overseas cap and pocket-knife were introduced in evidence (R29j Exhs. A,B,C).
4,	For the defense two witnesses, Joseph and Sarah Mooney who lived in a house about 15-20 yards from Stork House drive, testified that they heard no outcries on the night of 4 July. Mr. Mooney retired at 11:00 p.m. and was generally "a very good sleeper during the first two hours". Mrs. Mooney was a "fairly heavy sleeper" and was' "hard of hearing in her left ear" (R29-30).
*
Private Charles M. Johnson, 9th Airdrome Squadron, once met Miss Cullinane on a street in lambourn and walked home with her. When he met her a second time they lay on the grass outside her home. She permitted Johnson to touch her breasts, legs and "privates". He tried to have intercourse with her and she objected a little. Johnson then became angry and left. ne had never indulged in intercourse with the girl (R31-33)• Private Carrol E. Roderkuhr, 9th Airdrome Squadron, first met Miss Cullinane on the street in Lambourn, started talking to her and later went out with her on several occasions. She permitted him to touch her "anyplace", but they had never had sexual intercourse (R33-34)•
Captain Maurice E. Groff, 9th Airdrome Squadron accused's unit commander, testified that the character of accused's service in this theater had been good, and that his reputation and character were also good. He had once been absent without leave in the United States when his father died but had caused no other trouble aside from minor offenses (R35-36).
Accused testified that he met the girl about 10:00-10:30 p.m. on the evening in question. He had a bottle of cider with him. After Miss Cullinane had taken home a child who was with her, they went into a field, left because" horses were there and went up on a bank near the* house. He "got to playing around", felt her breasts and "the thing" and then got on top of her. He told her to loosen her knickers "and got it". Just as he completed the act and was buttoning his pants, a man passed by. Accused then made a date with her. The man returned, and the girl started to cry She and accused jumped down the bank. When thgtoan asked what the matter was, accused* said that he was an American soldier and displayed his identification tags. The girl promised to keep a future engagement. Accused found his cider and left. She had not objected to having intercourse aid had not screamed. Accused denied having a knife that evening. He identified as his the knife introduced in evidence as Exhibit C. He left his cap at the scene of the incident and testified that the hat introduced in evidence as Exhibit B was similar to his own (R36-37).
- U -
CONFIDENTIAL
COhhUL...«ln„
(225)
5.	An examination of the papers accompanying the record of trial discloses that the Additional Charge (assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon) was preferred on 19 July and that on the same day both the Original and Additional Charge were referred for trial. No investigation of the Additional Charge was directed. However, the findings of guilty of the Additional Charge were disapproved by the reviewing authority. Moreover, the facts pertaining to the additional offense alleged were fully disclosed in the investigation of the Original Charge. A new investigation
of the Additional Charge would have shown the same state of facts. Such a procedure would have been futile and would not in any way affect or safeguard the rights of accused (CM ETO 106, Orbon: CM ETO 393, Caton-Fikes).
The review of the staff judge advocate, Eighth Air Force, contains a discussion as to the improper admission in evidence of accused*s knife (Ex.C). Further comment thereon is unnecessary.
6,	(a) Without objection by the defense both the victim of the assault
and Athawes testified that when he (Athawes) asked her if she was all right Miss Cullinane replied "No, he has done everything to me. He has had a knife to my throat"*	The testimony of the girl, corroborated by that of accused
himself, shows that this statement of the victim was made almost immediately after the sexual act was completed. Moreover,' from the testimony of Athawes and accused it was clearly shown that accused was present when the statement was made.
"Although as a general rule statements which are merely narrative of a past transactioi^or acts or declarations which are subsequent to^the principal event and not directly cohnectedX_ therewith, will not be received in'evidence, -especially, in the case of declarations^ where they are of a self-serving nature, a declaration made **** after the happening of the principal fact may be admissible as part of the res gestae when it is so intimately interwoven with the principal fact by the surrounding circumstances as to raise a reasonable presumption that it was made or done under the immediate influence of the principal transaction or event itself and is the spontaneous utterance or expression of thoughts created by, and springing 6ut of, the transaction itself rather than the result of any premeditation or design" (22 C.J., sec.54-5,
PP.A5A-458).
The foregoing statements to Athawes by Miss Cullinane were made within such a short time after the incident and tinder such circunstances as to indicate clearly that they were the spontaneous expressions of a state of mind caused by the commission of the offense alleged. They were admissible as part of the res gestae.
- 5 -
’ONFIDENTIAl
CONFIDENTIAL
(b) Over objection of the defense Mrs. Marsh testified as to what Miss Cullinane told her when she came to witness’s room that evening (R20).
The testimony was as follows:
"A. Well, she knocked on the door and said, 'Let me“in.* I said, ’What's the matter?' She said, 'Let me in*....She was crying. I got up and let her in and she showed me her clothes and said, 'Look what he's done to me.'
She said, 'Whatever can I do?' She was in a terrible state....feeling so ill. I was talking to her and said, 'Oh, I can see the mark!1
Q, She said this soldier had produced a knife on her?
A. Yes.
Q. And she was ’crying?
A. Yes, very much. She told me that Mr. Athawes came to the rescue and told her to come on in."
(R20).
Attached to the record of trial is a request by defense counsel for a rehearing of the case. It is recited therein that the statements made fcy the girl to Mrs. Marsh occurred about two hours after the commission of the alleged assault (is 45 p.m. 5 July), that such evidence could not be considered a part of the res gestae, that it was a vital part of the prosecution's case, that its admission was contrary to the rules of evidence and seriously prejudiced the rights of accused.
Although she did not look at the clock, Mrs.. Marsh's testimony indicated that the girl came to her room about midnight 4-5 July and not at 1:45 afm. 5 July. In any event it is not necessary to base the admissibility of certain portions of the witness's testimony on the ground of res gestae.
In cases involving the offense of rape the weight of authority is that one to whom a complaint has been made may testify as to the making of the complaint by the prosecutrix, her physical condition and appearance, and the state of her clothing at that time. Testimony by the witness concerning the details of the outrage as stated by the prosecutrix are, however, inadmissible (Coppage v. State, 137 Pac. 2d (Okla.) 797} CM ETO 611, Porter)
In view of the foregoing, certain parts of Mrs. Marsh's testimony the admission of which was objected to by the defense, were clearly admissible. Evidence that the girl asked to be let in, that she was crying and "in a terrible state", that she said "Look what he's done to me" and "Whatever can I do?" was- competent testimony for the consideration of the court. Her statements that the soldier had used a knife and that Athawes came to her rescue, were details of .the incident and were improperly admitted in evidence. These utterances were too far removed in point of time from the assault to constitute part of the res gestae. However, because of other evidence establishing accused's guilt of the offense alleged, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the admission of such evidence did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused.
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(227)
7.	The evidence clearly supports the findings of guilty as approved by the reviewing authority. Accused first solicited intercourse but the girl refused, saying that she was not that kind of a girl. When she wanted to go home he pulled her down on the bank. When she screamed, he took out his knife and said he would not let her go until he got what he wanted. Intercourse followed, during which his left arm was around her nedk and a knife was in his left hand near her face. She received a slight cut on her neck. The girl did not voluntarily consent-to the act but submitted through fear of her life. The fact that she screamed was corroborated by the testimony of three witnesses who heard screams from the direction of the drive at the approximate time of the occurrence. The testimony of Athawes and Mrs. Marsh, as to the statements made by the victim, are corroborative of the girl’s version of the incident. Accused admitted that sexual intercourse was accomplished but claimed that it was with her consent. The question as to whether the victim consented to the act of intercourse or whether it was committed by accused by force and violence against the will of his victim
was one of fact within the exclusive province of the court. Inasmuch as the finding is supported by competent, substantial evidence it will not be disturbed by the Board of Review on appellate review (CM ETO 132, Kelly et alj CM ETO 397, Shaffer; CM ETO 492, Lewis). The evidence clearly established the fact'that accused did, at the time and place alleged, have carnal knowledge of the girl forcibly, feloniously and against her will which facts constitute rape (CM ETO 90, Edmonds; CM ETO 397, Shaffer: CM ETO 611, Porter).
8.	The court found accused guilty of rape in violation of Article of War 92 and of assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon in violation of Article of War 93. The court sentenced accused to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for life. Article of War 92 provides that a person who commits murder or rape shall suffer death or imprisonment for life as a court-martial may direct.
No mention is made in the Article of dishonorable discharge or total forfeitures. The maximum punishment imposable for the offense of assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon is dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years (Lid.!., par, 104c, p.99) .	However, the reviewing authority disapproved the
findings of guilty of the Additional Charge and Specification (assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon in violation of Article of War 93) and approved the sentence. As the reviewing authority disapproved the findings of guilty of an offense expressly made punishable in part by dishonorable discharge and total forfeitures, the question arises as to whether the sentence as approved is legal.
It is well settled that upon a conviction of an offense under Article of War 92, dishonorable discharge may legally be imposed with life imprisonment provided the court expressly includes the dishonorable discharge in the sentence. A sentence of dishonorable discharge is not to be implied from a sentence that imposes life imprisonment or any other punishment (MCM., par.103, p*92j Dig.Ops.JAG,,1912-1930, sec.1387, p.688; Dig,Ops,JAG.,1912-1940, sec.402(4-), p.250).
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(228)
CONFIDENTIAL
The foregoing principle was adopted in an opinion of The Judge Advocate General dated 17 January 1919 (250.479, Payne. Charlie), wherein it was stated that:
"The fact that the 92d Article of War does not in terms provide for such dishonorable discharge does not negative the power of the court in this respect. *** the grant of power to imprison for life, a punishment which results in the permanent removal of the*accused from military service, necessarily includes the power to dishonorably discharge such accused."
In a letter to the Assistant Judge Advocate General, Branch Office, ETO, APO 871, dated 3 August 1943, The Judge Advocate General stated that "While the Payne opinion is limited to the power of the court to impose dishonorable discharge, the same reasoning would apply to the right of the court to impose total forfeitures" (Underscoring supplied).
While the Board of Review is unable to follow the implication of the Payne opinion, in view of the" foregoing it now feels itself constrained to hold that upon conviction of the offense of rape alone in violation of Article of War 92, it would have been within the province of the court to impose dishonorable discharge and total forfeitures with life imprisonment, and that the sentence as approved is legal.
In CM ETO 268, Ricks, the Board of Review held upon a conviction under AW 92 that dishonorable discharge but not total forfeitures may be imposed with life imprisonment. That part of the Ricks case which holds that total forfeitures may not be imposed with life imprisonment is hereby overruled and should not be followed.
9.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of age and was inducted 1 September 1942 to serve for the duration <5f the war plus six months. He had no prior service.
10.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is authorized for the crime of rape by 35 Stat. 1143, 18 U.S.C., 457; 35 Stat. 1152, 18 U.S.C., 567; AW 42; War Department letter*AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941. Accused's return to the United States is authorized (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA,
4	December 1942).
(CONCURRING and DISSENTING HOLDING) Judge Advocate
Advocate Advocate
-8- CONFIDENTIAL
(229)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 709.
UNITED STATES )
v.	)
Private HENRI (NMI) LAKAS	)
(34339722)? 9th Airdrome	)
Squadron, VIII Air Support	)
Command.	)
15 SEP 1943
EIGHTH AIR FORCE.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at USAAF Station #446* APO 638, 30 July 1943. Sentence:	Dishonorable discharge,
total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for life* Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
CONCURRING (IN PART) and DISSENTING (IN PART) HOLDING by RITER, Judge Advocate.
1.	The accused in this case was brought to trial upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Henry (Ml) Lakas,
9th Airdrome Squadron, VIII Air Support Command, did, in the back drive of Stork House, at Lambourn,
Berks, England, on or about 4 July 1943, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Mary Frances Cullinane.
ADDITIONAL CHARGEsViolation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Henry (NMI) Lakas,
9th Airdrome Squadron, VIII Air Support Command, did, in the back drive of Stork House, at Lambourn,
Berks., England, on or about 4 July 1943, with intent to do her bodily harm, commit an assault upon Mary Frances Cullinane by cutting her on the neck with a dangerous weapon, to-wit, a knife.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of both charges and of the specifications thereunder. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor for his natural life. The reviewing authority disapproved the findings of guilty of the Additional Charge and the Specifi-ation thereunder, approved the sentence, designated the United States
- 1
CONFIDENTIAL
(230)
CONFIDENTIAL
Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial- for action pursuant to Article of War 50jv
2.	The Board of Review holds the record is legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty of the offense alleged in the Charge and its Specification and legally sufficient to support the sentence, I am in accord with the holding of the Board of Review that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings that accused was guilty of the crime of rape upon the person named in the Specification of the Charge at the time and place alleged. However, I cannot agree with the Board of Review in its conclusion that the approved sentence is legal,
3,	The Board of Review in its holding in the instant case overrules its prior holding CM ETO 268, Ricks, which announced the rule that upon a conviction for an offense under the 92nd Article of War total forfeitures may not be imposed in addition to a sentence of life imprisonment. The action of the reviewing authority in the instant case in disapproving the finding of guilty of the Additional Charge and Specification without adjusting the sentence consistent with the rule established in the Ricks case required the Board of Review either to strike down that part of the sentence including total forfeitures and thereby sustain the doctrine of the Ricks case or, in the alternative, to overrule the Ricks case. The issue is inescapable.
Manifestly the issue was created try the disapproval of the finding of guilty of the Additional Charge under AW 93 and its Specification alleging assault with a dangerous weapon. Had such finding been approved the sentence in the instant case would be valid under the rule declared by the Board of Review in CM ETO 422, Green, wherein it was written:
"An accused convicted of murder under the 92nd Article of*War ’shall suffer death or life imprisonment as the court-martial may direct Conviction of the offense of assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon, instrument or thing’ under the 93rd Article of War permits the imposition of such punishment as the court-martial may direct excepting the death penalty. The accused in the instant case was found guilty of both offenses and was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor for his natural life. The sentence is legal.
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(231)
In Civ! ETO 268 Ricks, the accused was found guilty of murder under the 92nd Article of War and was sentenced to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for his natural life. The Board of Review (AJAG.,-ETOUSA, concurring) held that part of the sentence involving total forfeitures to be void, but sustained the sentence with respect to the dishonorable discharge and life imprisonment. The instant case is distinguishable from the Ricks case inasmuch as the present accused was convicted not only of murder under AW 92 but also of assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon under AW 93. The finding of guilty of the Additional Charge under AW 93 furnishes the legal basis for sustaining- that part of the sentence adjudging total forfeiture." (CM ETO A22, Green, par.15, p.29).
4.	A summary of the holding of the Board of Review in the Ricks case is necessary in considering the problem now -presented. Ricks was charged with murder under the 92nd Article of War. He was found guilty of the Charge and Specification and was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor for life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence and designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement. The record was legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of the offense charged. The Board of Review considered at length the sentence and concluded that dishonorable discharge may be coupled with life imprisonment but -that total forfeitures were not authorized by the statute.
5.	The solution of the problem presented requires a determination of the intention of Congress in enacting the 92nd Article of War. The legislative intention must primarily be discovered from the language of the statute itself (United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U.S. 95; 42 L. Ed., 394) but the history of the statute may be properly considered in construing and interpreting it (United States v. Raynor, 302 U.S. 540, 82 L. Ed., 413; United States v. Morrow, 266 U.S. 531, 69 Ed., 425).
The progenitor of the 92nd and 93rd Articles of War was the 58th Article of War contained in the American Articles of War of 1874 enacted 22 June 1874* Winthrop in commenting upon the 58th Article states:
- 3 -
•o'FIDENTIAL
<«2)	iiOKFIDEfITlSL
"ORIGIN AND OBJECT. This provision, which, with but a single material change of language, is a republication of s. 30 of the Act of Congress of March 3, 1863, c. 75, appeared first as an Article of War in the Revision of 187A. Prior to its enactment, court-martial were not invested, either in peace or war, with a .jurisdiction of the violent crimes cognizable by the civil courts, except where the same directly prejudiced tgood order-and military discipline.1 -In 1863, however- during the late civil war- the provision, incorporated in this Article, initiated in our military law the marked innovation of investing general courts-martial with jurisdiction, in time of war, &c., of the graver civil crimes when committed by military persons, without regard to whether such crimes directly prejudice military discipline or affect the military service. Its main object evidently was to provide for the punishment of these crimes in localities where, in consequence of military occupation, or the prevalence of martial law, the action of the civil courts is suspended, or their authority can not be exercised with the promptitude and efficiency required by the exigencies of the period and the necessities of. military government,” (W-inthrop’s Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.667). (Underscoring supplied).
The 58th Article of War provided as follows:
"Art,58. In time of war, insurrection, or rebellion, larceny, robbery, burglary, arson, mayhem, manslaughter, murder, assault and battery with an intent to kill, wounding, by shooting or stabbing, with an intent to commit murder, rape, or assault and battery with an intent to commit rape, shall be punishable by the sentence of a general court-martial, when committed by persons in the military service of the United States, and the punishment in any such case shall not be less than the 0f ^he punishment provided, for the like offence, by the lawq/
State, Territory, or District in which such offence may have been committed." (Underscoring supplied),
It will be noticed that the Article concludes with the following injunction:
"and the punishment in any such case shall not be less than the punishment provided, for the like offence, by the laws of the State, Territory, or District in which such offence may have been committed.”
- A -
^hdentw
confidential
(233)
Winthrop discusses the punishment clause as follows:
"These words, in directing that the punishment imposed by the sentence shall not be less, i.e. less severe, than that authorised by the local law, evidently also contemplate that such punishment shall, (in part at least.) be of the same species as that thus authorized.
Such is certainly the reasonable construction. But the Article, in thus fixing a minimum for the punishment to be ad .judged bv the court-martial. leaves it discretionary with the court to add to such punishment if it thinks proper, and if such addition be practicable. -Thus., where death is the statutory penalty, the sentence of the court-martial must he capital also. But where the penalty is imprisonment for a certain term, or fine for a certain amount, (or both.)-the court-martial, while it must impose an imprisonment of at least as long a term, or a fine of at least as large an amount, (or both.) may.‘if deemed iust.- increase such penalty-or penalties at will; its discretion in the matter being without limit except in so far as it may properly be controlled by a principle analogous to that of the constitutional prohibition of 'cruel and unusual1 punishments. So. the court may ad.iudge. in addition to. the penalty prescribed by the local law, (whether or not itself enlarged.) a further punishment of a military character appropriate to the case, such as. dismissal, discharge, reduction.- forfeiture. suspension. £c.
Where indeed the civil statute, in awarding a particular punishment, fixes a maximum and a minimum for the same.' as where it assigns to the offender confinement in a penitentiary for a term not less than a stated number of months or greater than a stated number of years, the Article will be satisfied bp,?- a sentencing of the accused to the minimum term thus established, while of course even the maximum may legally be exceeded. But where- as is sometimes done- the statute merely establishes a maximum, as where it enacts that the offender shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not to exceed a certain number of years, or by -a fine not to exceed a certain sum named, then, as any degree of the punishment within such limit is legal, the court-martial is without any restriction
_ ^ ■
CONFIDENTIAL
(23 A)
whatever, under the Article, as to the term or amount which it shall impose by its sentence .
•For the like offence,* Like means same or similar, and in general the ’like' offence in the local statute will readily be distinguished, Where the statute establishes two or more degrees of an offence, with different punishments for the several degrees, it will be sufficient for the court-martial to impose the punishment belonging to the degree to which the offence found by it is 'like1 or corresponds. Where the common-law offence, as charged and found, can not readily be assimilated to either of the degrees of the offence as defined in the statute, it will be safest for the court to impose a punishment not less than that provided for the first or highest degree." (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.689-690),
(Underscoring supplied).
’.Then the Articles of War were re-written in 1916 the 58th Article of War of the 187 A code was subjected to radioal treatment. The crimes of murder and rape were separated for the first time from the other offenses denounced in the 58th Article. Accordingly we discover in the 1916 codification the following:
11 Art.92 Murder-Rape.- Any person subject to military law who commits murder or rape shall suffer death or imprisonment for life, as a court-martial may direct; but no person shall be tried by 'court-martial .for murder or rape committed within the geographical limits of the States of the-Union and the District of Columbia in time of peace," (R.S.13A2 as amended Act of Aug 29, 1916; 39 Stat, 650-670).
"Art.93 Various crimes.- Any person subject to military law who commits manslaughter,., mayhem, arson, burglary, robbery, larceny, embezzlement, perjury, assault with intent to commit ‘any felony, or assault with intent to do bodily harm, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct." (R.S.1342 as amended Act of-Aug 29, 1916; 39 Stat. 650-670).
The 1920 codification (sec.l, Chap.II, Act of June A, 1920; A1 Stat. 805; 10 U.S.C. 156A) re-enacted the 92nd Article of War exactly as it appeared in the 1916 codification. The 93rd Article of War was reenacted except for the following addition:	After	the word "burglary" the
word "house-breaking" was inserted; after the word "perjury" the words "forgery, sodomy" were inserted; after the word■ "felony" the words "assault
- 6 -
! * ■’> I
COfiflPENTIM
(235)
with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon, instrument, or Other thing" were inserted (sec.l, Chap.II, Act of June 4> 1920; 41 Stat. 805; 10 U.S.C. 1$65).
6.	The Board of Review in the instant case refers to the opinion of The Judge Advocate General dated 17 Jan 1919 (250.479, Payne, Charlie), wherein was discussed the legality of including a dishonorable discharge with the sentence of life imprisonment resultant upon conviction under the 92nd Article of War. The following statement ?/as made in the cited opinion:
'•It may be noted that the 93d Article of War which punishes assault with intent to kill and assault with intent to do bodily harm both of which are lesser offenses included in the crime of murder does give such power (to include dishonorable discharge in the sentence) and it is inconceivable that it was the legislative intention to withhold it in cases of murder under the 92d Article of War." (Parenthetical insertion).
I believe the foregoing reason advanced by The Judge Advocate General to sustain the imposition of a dishonorable discharge in addition to the sentence of life imprisonment is unsound, and that it will fall of its own weight when the history of the 92d and 93d Articles of War is considered. ,
Until the 1916 codification, murder and rape were denounced in the same Article as the crimes of larceny, robbery, burglar^, arson, ‘etc.,
(AW 58, 1874 code). The punishment for the offenses thus denounced were not "less than'the punishment provided, for the like offence, by the laws of the State, Territory, or District, in which such offence may have been committed". The operational effect of such provision is discussed by Winthrop in the quotation above set forth. When the 1916 Articles were enacted, Congress Saw fit to segregate the crimes of murder and rape from those other offenses of the civil law with which murder and rape had been associated under the 58th Article of War of the 1874 code. Can it be Said that such separate treatment was a mere matter of convenience or of draughtsmanship?
In the case of United States v. McClure, 305 U.S. 472, 83 L. Ed., 297, the Supreme Court of the United States had occasion to consider the effect of a situation involving the construction of Sections 304 and 305 of the World War Veterans Act (Act of June 2, 1926, 44 Stat. 686). These sections were originally Section 408 of the War Risk Insurance Act (42 Stat. 147), but by the Act of June 7, 1924 (43 Stat. 607) Section 408 was severed end thereafter appeared as two separate and distinct paragraphs, Sections 304 and 305. The Supreme Court said:
7 -
t' . M I
(236)
CONFIDENTIAL
"While both sections emanated from a single .prior section, Congress evidently separated them to provide for the individual treatment that has been given reinstatement as distinguished from revival of lapsed policies.
A deliberate separation of the two parts of the old section - applying a restriction to one and not to the other - indicates that a change was intended."
The distinguishing feature between the 92d Article of War and the 93d Article of War is that portion thereof which pertains'to punishment. Crimes denounced by the 93d Article of War "shall be punished as a court-martial may : direct."	Punishment therein is limited by the provisions of
AW A3 and by such maximum penalties as may be prescribed by the President under authbrity conferred upon him by AW 45. Except as to these limitations the colirt is vested with full discretionary authority in prescribing the punishment. Within the field where Congress has granted the court this discretion total forfeiture is recognized as a legitimate method of punishment (Yfinthrop’s Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, pp.427,433).
The 92d Article of War approaches the matter of punishment in a radically different manner. It requires that a murderer or rapist "shall suffer death or imprisonment fbr life, as a court-martial may direct".
This difference in method of prescribing punishment in comparison with the 93d Article cannot be ignored, A broad discretion was granted to the court in fixing punishment under the 93d Article. Opposed to such process, the 92d Article authorizes only two punishments:	death or life imprisonment.
Within this narrow sector the court may exercise its discretion. It may elect to sentence an accused either to be imprisoned for life or to be executed. When Congress severed the old 58th Article of V7ar and classified the crimes of murder and rape separately from the other heinous offenses there is a definite indication that a change was intended (United States v. McClure (supra)). The argument of The Judge Advocate General in his opinion above mentioned wholly ignores this situation. Reason and logic appear to dictate that Congress fully intended to fix its own penalties for murder and rape committed in time of war and did not intend for the court to have any latitude in the matter except as applying one or the other punishment, viz: death or life imprisonment. This conclusion is emphasized by the fact that "no person shall be tried by court-martial for murder or rape committed within the geographical limits of the States of the Union and the District of Columbia in time of peace". Congress may well have believed that the crimes of murder and rape when committed by military personnel in time of war assume a much more serious mien than when committed in times of peace. The relationship of such offenders to military 'discipline in time of war cannot be ignored. Inasmuch as jurisdiction was conferred upon military court's to try such offenders in time o'f war, the implication is definite that Congress intended for itself to nominate
- 8 -
CMTtM
OOKRCEi-TiAL
(237)
the penalties and not allow the courts in these serious and.heinous offenses to exercise any discretion except as to electing between the two nodes of punishment prescribed.
Hlhen the historical background of the 92d and 93d Articles of Y/ar is considered in conjunction with the sharp difference in phraaseology used by Congress in prescribing the punishment under the two Articles there appears but little basis for the contention that punishments authorized by the 93d Article are by implication authorized under the 92d Article.
7.	The Board of Review in the Ricks case quotes the following statement from Winthrop:
"In imposing sentence for the offenses made punishable under these Articles,.the province of the court is simply ministerial - to pronounce the judgment of the law. It has no power to affix a.punishment either more or less severe, or other, than that specified: any different or additional punishment is simply a nullity and inoperative, ****#.
Indeed in all cases of punishments of the mandatory class, it is not the court which decrees the penalty but the statute; the distinctive function of the court practically terminating with the conviction." (Winthrop's military Lav/ & Precedents, 2nd Ed., p.395)•
The above principle is based upon Chief Justice Marshall's declaration in United States v, Wiltberger, 5 Vilheat, 76,	5 L. Ed., 37,42:
"Tho rule that penal laws are to be construed strictly, is perhaps not much less old than construction itself. It is founded on the tenderness of the law for the rights of individuals; and on the plain principle that the power of punishment is vested in the legislative, not in the judicial department *->!*-**. The intention of the legislature is to be collected from the wo?ds they employ.
Where there is no ambiguity in the v/ords, there is no room for construction. The case must be a strong one indeed, which would justify a court in departing from the plain meaning of words, especially in a penal act, in search of an intention which the words themselves did not suggest. *'***". (5 Wheat,
94; 5 L. Ed., 42).
The rule thus announced has been consistently confirmed:
9
CONFIDENTIAL
"Criminal and penal statutes must be strictly construed; that is, they cannot be enlarged or extended by intentment, implication, or by any equitable considerations. In other words, the language cannot be enlarged beyond the ordinary meaning of its terms in order to carry into effect the general purpose for which the statute was enacted. Only those persons, offenses, and penalties, clearly included, beyond any reasonable doubt, will be considered within the statute's operation. They must come clearly within both the spirit and the letter of the statute, and where there is any reasonable doubt, it must be resolved in favor of the person accused of violating the statute; that is, all questions in doubt will be resolved in favor of those from whom the penalty is sought, *****. Nor can the court, as a general rule, supply or correct any omission of the legislature regardless of what may be its cause. And it matters not that the court believes that the statute should have been more comnrehensive. or that a strict construction produces an undesirable result. Since the power to inflict punishment is vested in the legislature rather than in the courts, there is considerable danger in subjecting criminal or penal statutes to a liberal construction, lest the court invade the province of the legislature. Moreover, the creation of an offense by interpretation may operate to entrap the unwary and ignorant and threaten the rights of the people generally. As is obvious, the rule of strict construction largely and properly grows out of the tenderness of the law for the rights of the individual (Crawford's Statutory Construction, sec.240, pp.460-464). (Underscoring supplied).
"****-*, statutes which subject one to a punishment or penalty, or to forfeiture, or a summary process calculated to take away his opportunity of making a full defense, or in any way deprive him of his liberty, are to be construed strictly And the degree of strictness will depend somewhat on the severity of the punishment they inflict." (Bishop on Statutory Crimes, 3rd Ed., sec.193» pp.216,217).
- 10 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(239)
"It is urged, however, that if the literal meaning of the statute he as* indicated above, that meaning should be rejected as leading to absurd' results, and a construction adopted in harmony with, what is thought to be the spirit -and purpose of the act in order to give effect to the intent of Congress. The principle sought to be applied is that followed by this Court in Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States, 14-3 U.S. 4-57, 36 L. ed. 226, 12 S. Ct. 511; but a consideration of what is there said will disclose that the principle is to be applied to override the literal lerms of a statute only under rare and exceptional circumstances. The illustrative cases cited in the opinion demonstrate that to justify a departure from the letter of the law upon that ground, the absurdity must be so gross as to shock the general moral or common sense.' Compare Pirie v.
Chicago Title & T. Co. 182 U.S. '433,151,4-52,
45 L. ed. 1171,1173,1179, 21 S. Ct. 906.
And there must be something to make plain the intent of Congress that the letter of -the statute is not to prevail. Treat v. T/hite,
181 U.S. 264,268, 45 L. ed. 853,854, 21 S.
Ct. 611." (Crooks v. Harrelson, 282,U.S. 55,
59,60; 75 L. Ed. 156,175).
hxxxx*. But the object of all construction, whether of penal or other statutes, is to ascertain the legislative intent; 'and in penal statutes, as in those of a different character, ‘if the language is clear, it- is conclusive.1 ""(Osaka Shosen Kaisha Line, etc. v. United States of America, 300 U.S. 98,101;
81 L. Ed., 532-535J Cfs United States of America v. Noveck, 271 U.S. 201; 70 L. Ed.,
904; United States v, Scharton, 285 U.S. 518,
76 L. Ed., 917).
"Penalties and forfeitures in addition to those stated in a statute will not be implied.
(Western Fidelity & Guarantv Co. v. Marks,
142 Pac. 524, 37 Nevada 306)". (59 C.J., sec.660, p,lll6, note 25).
The phraseology of the 92nd Article with respect to punishment — "shall suffer death or imprisonment for life, as a court-martial may direct" is specific, explicit and direct. There is nothing to interpret or construe
- 11 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(240)
The penalty of "death" needs no further description; it is the ultimate,-"Imprisonment for life" likewise describes without qualification a punishment which is only one degree less severe than death. The rules of statutory construction* announced by the above cited' authorities' apply with force and vigor.
The Board of Review in the Ricks case applied the foregoing rules of statutory construction insofar as total forfeitures were concerned, but concluded that Congress must have legislated with knowledge of the long established custom and practice of Courts-Martial of* imposing the sentence of dishonorable discharge in connection*with a sentence of life imprisonment and therefore, by implication, read into the 92nd Article of War authority for the court to* include the sentence of dishonorable discharge with the sentence of life imprisonment. The writer hereof, as a member of the Board of Review, gave his asseht. to the Ricks holding. However, after further thought and study he now believes that the holding in this respect is subject to legitimate criticism and is illogical. It fails to follow the reasoning of the above quoted authorities to its logical conclusion. The Board was undoubtedly influenced by the Allowing provision appearing in the Manual for Courts-Martial:
For instance*, the sentence of the court upon* conviction of a violation of ATI 95 must be dismissal; nothing less in any event, and, if convicted of that alone, nothing more.
However, upon conviction of an offense under AW 92, dishonorable discharge* may legally be imposed with life imprisonment, ***" (MCM ,
1928, par,103, p.92).
A fearless and consistent application of the well settled rules of statutory construction previously set-forth, compels the conclusion that neither the sentence of dishonorable discharge nor the sentence of total forfeitures may be imposed under the 92nd Article as concomitant punishments with life imprisonment. The above quoted provision from the Manual exhibits the identical inconsistency as the Ricks holding. It declares that the sentence of the court upon conviction of violation of AW 95 shall be "dismissal" and "nothing lea's" or "nothing more". In the next sentence, which interprets AW 92 it reads "dishonorable discharge" into the Article but remains silent as to "total forfeitures". Total forfeitures as a form of punishment were as well recognized and established as a custom and usage of the service as dishonorable discharge (Winthrop*s'Military Law & Precedents - 2nd Ed, - p.427) when Congress enacted the 92nd Article, If it legislated in contemplation of one usage it legislated equally in contemplation of the other usage. One cannot be included and the other excluded.
The defect in the Ricks holding is that it excised only a part of the illegal punishment, viz: total forfeitures. The part thereof imposing dishonorable discharge was likewise subject to the same interdiction.
It is my considered opinion, that the provision of the Manual authorizing the imposition of "dishonorable discharge" in connection with
- 12 -
CONFIDENTS!
CONFIDENTIAL
(241)
a sentence of "life imprisonment" upon conviction of violation of AW 92 is unauthorized by Congress. - It is administrative legislation and therefore without force or effect (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents - 2nd Ed, -p.33). Ergo, the sentence of "total forfeitures" may not be added to such sentence. The doctrine of the Ricks case should be confirmed, and extended as herein set forth to include the nullifying of sentences of "dishonorable discharge"•
8.	It may-, be advanced arguendo that the punishments prescribed by the 92d Article are not "optional mandatory punishments, but rather as limiting punishments, - that is as fixing the maximum and minimum limits of the punishments that may be adjudged, and authorizing the court to enter the field between. In such event, since a death sentence may be commuted to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and jLife imprisonment, the latter sentence is less than death, and obviously is greater -than life imprisonment alone. Such a sentence then being within_ the prescribed limits, the court is authorized to impose it". (See letter from Brig, General L, H. Hedrick, Assistant Judge Advocate General, ETOUSA., to The Judge Advocate General,
21 May 1943).
In making a search and examination of the authorities cogent to this suggested construction of the, 92d. Article I have found an interesting situation arising out of Section 268 of the Judicial Code 28 U.S.C.A. 385 which reads in part as follows:
"The said courts shall have power **-#* to punish, by fine o£ imprisonment, at the discretion of the court, contempts of their authority. Such power to punish contempts shall not be construed to extend to any cases except the misbehavior of any person in their presence, etc, ****".
It will be seen that there is a parallel between this‘"contempt" statute and the 92d Article of War in respect to the punishments prescribed:
Sec.268 Judicial Code
"to punish, by fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of the court".
A^_22
"Shall suffer death or imprisonment for life, as the court-martLal may direct",.
Section 268 of the Judicial Code had its origin in Act of Sept 24, 1789 (Judiciary Act) Chap.20, Sec.17, 1 Stat. 83. Section 17 of the Judiciary Act was carried forward into the Act of Mar 2, 1831, 4 Stat, 487, in practically its original, terms and was re-enacted without change in the Judicial Code as Section 268.
In the case of Ex parte Robinson, (19 Wall, 505, 22 L, Ed,, 205) the Supreme Court had occasion to apply the statute as it then stood under
- 13 -
confidential
CONFIDENTIAL
the act of 1831. Robinson, an attorney, was punished by the District Court of the United States for the Western District of Arkansas, for an alleged contempt. He was sentenced to disbarment from practice. He applied to the Supreme Court for a writ of mandamus, directed to the District Judge compelling him. to reinstate his name, on the list of attorneys. In its opinion the Supreme Court assumed that Robinson had committed a contempt in the presence of the court and the question presented was whether the district judge had authority to disbar Robinson for the alleged contempt. In holding that the punishment . was not authorized by the statute the Supreme Court said*
“The law happily prescribes the punishment which the court can impose for contempts.
The 17th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. at L., 73, declares that the court shall have power to punish contempts of their authority in any cause pr hearing before them, by fine or imprisonment, at their discretion. The enactment is a limitation upon the manner in which the powpr shall be exercised, and must be held to be a negation of all other modes of punishment.
The judgment of the court disbarring the petitioner, treated as a punishment for a contempt, was, therefore, unauthorized and void." (22 L. Ed., p.208).
In the recent decision of the Supreme Court in re William V.
Bradley (Lqw Ed., Advance Opinions 1942-1943, Vol.87, No.8, p.44l), Bradley was found guilty by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the 3rd circuit of a contempt tinder present Section -268 of the Judicial Code for intimidating a witness in a corridor adjoining the court-room. The court sentenced Bradley to six months imprisonment, to pay a fine of $500 and to stand committed until he complied with the sentence. Bradley was taken into custody and committed to prison and soon thereafter paid his fine to the court. Later the court realised the sentence was erroneous and delivered to the clerk an order amending it by omitting any fine and retaining only the six months imprisonment. The court instructed the clerk, who still held the money, to return it to Bradley's attorney. The latter refused to receive it and the clerk continued to hold it. Bradley being in jail petitioned the Supreme Court to grant certiorari. With respect to the original sentence the Supreme Court said: "The sentence was erroneous, *** the sentence could only be a fine or imprisonment." The Supreme Court cited the Robinson case (supra) as authority together with two other decisions:	Ex	parte	Lange,	18	Wall.	163,176$ 21 L. Ed., 872-878 and Clark
v. United States, 289 U.S. 1; 77 L. Ed., 993..
— 14- **
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(243)
The Lange case arose out of Lange*s alleged violation of the Act of June 8, 1872 (17 Stat. 320, sec.290) for baling, purloining, embezzling, and appropriating to his' own Use certain mail bags belonging to the Post Office department. He was found guilty of appropriating bags of the value of less than $25, ‘the punishment for which as provided in the statute was imprisonment for not more than one year, or a fine of not-less than $10. nor more than $200. He was sentenced under such conviction to one year’s imprisonment and to pay a $200 fine. Lange was committed to jail and the next day paid his fine to the- clerk who paid the same to the Treasurer of the United States. Thereafter on a writ of habeas corpus the same judge vacated the former judgment and the prisoner was sentenced to one year’s imprisonment, A second writ of habeas corpus was issued upon discharge of which Lange appealed to the Supreme Court. In holding the original punishment erroneous the Supreme Court said:
"tfe are of opinion that when the prisoner, as in this case, by reason of a valid judgment, had fully suffered one of the alternative punishments to which alone the law subjected him, the power of the court to punish further was gone; ***”.
(21 L. Ed., .878-879).
In the Clark case the defendant was adjudged by the District Judge guilty of criminal contempt in that with intent to obstruct justice she gave answers knowingly misleading and others knowingly false on her voir dire examination as a juror. The conviction was affirmed by the Circuit Court of«Appeals but was remanded to correct an error in the satence (61 Fed., 2nd, 695). The Supreme Court’s opinion does not discuss this erroneous sentence but full consideration of same is found in the Cpurt of Appeals opinion in 68 Federal (2nd),
The basis of these decisions is clearly that when a court by statute is authorized to adjudge^ two alternative penalties, the discretion of the court is confined to those penalties. It may adjudge one or the other but not both and it cannot inrpose anv other penalty than those specified in the statute. This doctrine is amplified further in Elliott v. The East Pennsylvania Railroad Co. (99 U.S. 573; 25 L. Ed., 292), wherein the court refused to extend by implication the imposition of a penalty not expressed in the statute under consideration, saying:
the conclusion is irresistable, that it was the intention of Congress to impose no other penalty for a failure to comply with the requirements of this section than the one which is specifically given," (25 L. Ed., p,293)*
Erskine v, Milwaukee & St, Paul Railway Co, (94 U.S. 619; 24 L. Ed., 133) further illustrates the rule that a court will not read into a statute
— 15 —
rnMrnrvj! *
(244)	l^lftrilicKilAi.
penalties not prescribed therein. (See also: Western Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Harks, (supra)'
The foregoing decisions appear to be conclusive on the -question of the authority of a courts-martial to adjudge penalties under the 92d Article of War. The court may elect between life imprisonment and death. Its discretion is confined to choosing between these two mandatory punishments. When the choice is made its discretion is exhausted. When sentencing an accused to life imprisonment it cannot add the additional punishments of "dishonorable discharge" and "total forfeitures".
The only remaining question arises out of the suggestion that the power to commute a death sentence imposed under the 92d Article to life imprisonment, dishonorable discharge and total forfeitures, modifies the conclusion above stated.	The sentence of death is an alternative mandatory
punishment under the 92d Article. The power tc commute it in the manner above stated is unquestioned.
A sentence cannot be commuted except by the President or by a commanding general empowered by the President under AW 50 (MCM., 1928, 87b, P.77).
"Commutation is conditional pardon. It is pardon granted on the condition subsequent that the party receive and undergo a less severe punishment of a different nature- a condition -which, like all conditions annexed to pardons, must be accepted or the grant will not take effect. In military cases, the acceptance is general given, not formally, but impliedly by the party’s entering upon without objection, and duly undergoing, the substituted punishment. ■#*****, Thus death may be commuted to dismissal or dishonorable discharge, or to imprisonment, or to both,-indeed to any recognized military penalty or combination of penalties, since any such penalty or combination is in law less grievous than the summum supplicium of death.
*****-#, Like other conditional pardon, commutation is, 'in practice, employed at the time of the approval or confirmation of the sentence or punishment: unlike remission, it is rarely if ever resorted to at a later stage." (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents,
2nd Ed., pp.471-472)•
The Supreme Court of the United States has definitely announced the rule that the commutation of a sentence is the exercise of the power of pardon and is not part of the judicial process:
CONFIDENTIAL
(245)
«#**#*. x pardon is an act of grace, proceeding from the porter intrusted wi,th the execution of the laws, which exempts the individual on whom it is bestowed from the punishment the law inflicts for a crime he has committed* It is the private, though official act of the executive magistrate, delivered to the individual for whose benefit it is intended, and not communicated officially to the court. It is a constituent part of the judicial system that the judge sees only with judicial eyes, and knows nothing respecting any particular case, of which he is not informed judicially.
A private deed, not communicated to him, whatever may be its character, whether a pardon or release, is totally unknown and cannot be- acted on. The looseness which would be introduced into judicial proceedings would prove fatal to the great principles of justice, if the judge might notice and act upon facts not brought regularly into the cause. Such a proceeding, in ordinary cases, would subvert the best established principles’, and overturn those rules which have been settled by the wisdom of ages ****." (United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150,l6lj 8 L. Ed., 640-644).
"Indisputably under our constituional system the right to try offenses against the criminal laws, and, upon conviction, to impose the punishment provided by the law, is judicial, and it is equally to be conceded that, in exerting the powers vested in them on such subject, courts inherently possess ample right -to exercise reasonable, that is, judicial, discretion to enable them to wisely exert their authority. But these concessions afford no ground for the contention as to power here made, since it must rest upon the proposition that the power to enforce begets inherently a discretion to permanently refuse to do so.
And the effect of the proposition urged upon the distribution of powers made by the Constitution will become apparent when it is observed that indisputable also is it that the authority to define and fix the punishment for crime is legislative, and includes the
- 17 -
On'.’^HFNTIAf
CONFIDENTIAL
(246)
right in advance to bring within judicial discretion for the purpose of executing the statute elements of consideration which would be otherwise beyond the scope of judicial authority, and that the right to relieve from the punishment fixed by law and ascertained according to the methods by it provided, belongs to the, executive department. ***•*.11 (Ex parte United States, 242 U.S. 27,
42j 61 L. Ed., 129-140).
»-xxx-k*. .Executive clemency exists to afford relief from undue harshness or evident mistake in the operation or enforcement of the criminal law. The administration of justice by the courts is not necessarily always wise or certainly considerate of circumstances which may properly mitigate guilt. To afford a remedy, it has always been thought essential in popular governments, as well as in-monarchies, to vest in some other authority *than the courts1 power to ameliorate or avoid particular criminal judgments. It is a check intrusted to the Executive for special cases. To exercise it to the extent of destroying the deterrent effect of judicial punishment would be to pervert it; but whoever is to make it useful must have full discretion to exercise it.
****'.11 (Ex carte Grossman, 267 U.S. 87,121;
69 L. Ed., 527,535'-536).
"***-**. Tflhen we come to the commutation of death to imprisonment for life it is hard to see how consent has any more to do with it than it has in the cases first put. Supposing that Perovich did not accept the change, he could not have got himself hanged against the Executive order. Supposing "that he did accept, he could not affect the judgment to be carried out. The considerations that led to the modification had nothing to do with his will. The only question is whether the substituted punishment was authorized by law— here, whether the change is within the scope of the words of the Constitution, article 2, § 2:
•The President ... shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offenses
— 18 —
(247)
CONFIDENTIAL
against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.’ We cannot doubt that the power extends to this case. By common understanding imprisonment for life is a less penalty than death, ***." (Biddle v.
Perovich, 274 U.S. 480,487; 71 L. Ed.,
1161-1163).
«***-#*. The Probation Act gives power to grant probation to a convict after his conviction or after a plea of guilty, by suspending the imposition or suspending execution of the sentence. This probation is to be after conviction or plea of guilty.
The question is, Before what time must it be granted? Two answers to this latter question are possible. It must be grantable either at any time during his whole sentence or be limited to a time before execution of the sentence. If the first answer is adopted, it would confer very comprehensive power on the district judges in the exercise of what is very like that of executive clemency in all cases of crime or misdemeanor. It would cover in most cases the period between the imposition of the sentence and the full execution of it. It would cover a period in which not only clemency by the President under the Constitution might be exercised but also the power of parole by a board of parole, abating judicial punishment to the extent of two thirds of it as to all crimes punishable by imprisonment for more than one year. It seems quite unlikely that Congress would have deemed it wise or necessary thus to make applicable to the same crime at the same time three different methods of mitigation. ***" (United States v. Murray, 275 U.S,
347,356; 72 L. Ed., 309-312).
Since the commutation of a sentence is an exercise of the power of pardon vested by statute in the President or by his direction in a commanding general of an army in the field, it cannot be said that the existence of this power enlarges the authority of a court-martial in adjucy.ng punishment under the 92d Article, The power of pardon is an exercise of clemency; the adjudging of the punisliment is a judicial function. The Articles of War neither directly nor by implication vest in courts-martial the powers of clemency. Following the principle and philosophy of the Constitution and acts of Congress applicable to
- 19 -
w p, jr f.f t {|\ |
.i
(2A8)
civilians, the Articles of War sharply separate the judicial area within which th5 court operates in adjudging a sentence prescribed by statute from the executive range exercising the powers of pardon. The power of the President or of the Commanding General of.an army in the field tc relieve from the punishment fixed by law tn^^o^ethe court-does not supplement the authority of the court in the first instance} it cannot authorize a court to impose a punishment not authorized by the statute denouncing the crime,
9,	I therefore conclude that the record in the instant case is legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty but legally insufficient to support that part of the sentence which adjudges dishonorable discharge of the accused and forfeiture of all of his pay and allowances due or to become due.
Judge Advocate
20
(249)
i L
NTlAt
1st Ind.
ID, Branch Office TJAG., with ET0U3A»	1	r'	^43
General, Eighth Air Force, APO 633, U.S.Army.
TO: Commanding
1.	In the case of Private HENRI (Ml) LAXAS (3-4339722), 9th Airdrome Squadron, VIII Air Support Command, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved.
Under the provisions of Article of War 50^ you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	I deem it necessary to say that in my judgment the sentence of imprisonment for life is too severe in this case. On conviction of rape in violation of the 92d Article of War, the court was required to adjudge one of the mandatory punishments, death or imprisonment fcr life, fixed by the statute. The reviewing authority, however, has power to reduce the term of confinement to such number of years as he deems appropriate. Fcr a brutal . waylaying and overpowering of an innocent young girl, the maximum punishment is appropriate. But this is not such a case. The woman involved was 26 years of age, she went willingly with the accused to a secluded spot late at night, lay with him in the grass and ■undoubtedly permitted certain liberties. The evidence indicates that she had so behaved with other soldiers and that the accused knew that. While she did not consent to intercourse, and the crime of rape is establishes the record does not make out the aggravated crime which would warrant imprisonment for life. It is suggested that you consider some reduction of the term of confinement.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office
they should be accompanied by the record of trial which is transmitted herewith and the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 709. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets.at the end of the order:	(ETO	709)*
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
1 Incl: Record of Trial.
- 1 —
‘‘'•‘nncMTi.ir

#(251)
