#(253)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO I388
UNITED STATES )
' )
v.	)
. ‘ )
Captain CHARLES	C.	MADDEN	)
(0-236484),	654th	Tank	)
Destroyer Battalion,	'	)
16 FEB 1944
XV CORPS
Trihl by G.C.M., convened at Lurgan, Armagh County, Northern' Ireland,
17 January 1944* Sentence 1 To be dismissed th‘e service.
• HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN land SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1,	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Bofcrd submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge, Advocate General in charge of the Branch
Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Thbater' of Operations,
* . ...
2,	Accused was tried Upon the following charges and specifications! ,
* <
CHARGE It Violation of the 93th. Article of War.
Specification li (Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification 2t In thqt Captain Charles C. Madden,
654th Tank Destroyer Battalion, did, at The *
Argory House,1 Armani County, Northern Ireland, on or about 25 December, 1943 use insulting * and defamatory language about Captaih D. L, 1 Benton, Jr., 654th Tank1 Destroyer Battalion to Lieutenant Colonel William V, Martz, Commandihg 654th Tank Destroyer Battalion', to wit, *D. L, is a rat, : He was just a private when 1 came ' into1 the Army and as far as I'm concerned he'*s still a private," or words to that effect.
Specification 3* Jo’ that Captain Charles C, Madden,
654th Tank Destroyer Battalion, did,*at The Argory House, Armagh County, Northern Breland, / on or about 25 December, 1943 us* insulting * and defamatory language to and in the presence •
1
(254)
of Lieutenant Colonel William V. Martz, Commanding 654th Tank Desttoyer Battalion, to wit,
"You're just' a God Damn Son' of a bitch, and ' you've been giving me a dirty 'deal"', or words to that effect,	‘	'
CHARGE II:	Violation of the 96th Article of War..
Specification 1:	In	that Captain Charles C, Madden,
654th Tank Destroyer Battalion,' was at The '
Argory House, Armagh County, Northern Ireland, on or about' '25 December, 1943 drunk and disorderly in uniform in a public place, to' wit, a dance attended by civilians at The Argory House,
Armagh County, northern Ireland,
Specification 2; In that Captain Ch'arle^ C. Madden,
654th Tank Destroyer Eattalion, having 'received' a lawful order from Lieutenant Colonel William . V. Martz, Commanding 654th Tank Destroyer Battalion to remain in the area of The Argory House,
Armagh County, Northern Ireland on 26 December,
1943• the said Lieutenant Colonel William V,
Martz being in the execution of his office, did, at The Argory House, Armagh County, Northern Ireland, on or about 26 December, 1943» fail to ' obey the same,
.*
He pleaded not guilty, and was found guilty of Specifications 2 and 3t Charge I, and of Charge II and the specifications thereunder, and not guilty of Specification 1, Charge I, and not guilty of Charge I but guilty of violation of the 96th Article of War, .Evidence of one previous conviction by general court-martial of being drunk and disorderly in camp in violation of Article of War 96, was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service and to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, XV1 Corps,approved the sentence but'remitted the'forfeitures' and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article ‘of War 48* The * confirming authority, the Commanding General, European' Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence as mitigated by the reviewing authority and withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 5°i*
•	*	v
3.	The evidence for the prosecution is substantially as follows:
The companies comprising the 654th Tank Destroyer Battalion were stationed, part at Derrygalley, Tyrone County, Northern Ireland, and part at Argory House, Accused was the commanding officer of the Reconnaissance company and lived at Argory House (R9)« On the evening of 25 December 1943 a battalion dance was held at Argory House. Lieutenant William V. Martz, commanding the battalion visited the dance about 2200 hours. About 23OO or 2330 hours, one of his officers Captain D. L, Benton, Jr,, informed him that there was a little difficulty with accused and that Captain ^
(255)
Benton had him taken upstairs. Colonel Martz found accused upstairs surrounded by several officers and some of ihe camp guard who were holding him. He ordered the others to leave and, .with Captain Witherspoon, took accused into Lieutenant Healey's room and put him on the bed. Accused was still -fighting and kicking and trying to get away.
The others left Colonel Martz alone in the room with accused who appeared to recognize him and said to him, "'a lot of the men in the battalion like you and you, have done- a lot of good for the battalion. »
As far as I am concerned, you are just a God damn son-of-a-bitch and you have been giving me -a dirty deal'" (RIO), Then a moment later he said, "'That D.L.'" referring to Captain Benton, "'is a rat. He was a private when I came into the Army and as far as I am concerned he is still a private'*. Colonel Martz testified that accused was "very drunk" and that he considered these comments as coming from a drunk man spouting off. -	.
w	i
About noon the next day, 26 December 1943* Colonel Martz went over' to the Argor-y Camp and spoke to accused and Lieutenant Cooper.
He saw that accused was not fully recovered from his drinking bout of the evening before and told both accused and Lieutenant Cooper, "'I want you to stay in the area for the'rest of the day and take care of yourself so you will be in fit shape for work tomorrow morning'*.
Both answered H,Yes, sir'*. -These instructions were not changed (Rll-
12). ‘ ( 4
Captain Benton went to the battalion dance at Argory House on 25 December about 90° P*3i. Accused was dancing and was apparently normal. When Captain Benton returned to the dance room some forty minutes later, accused was:
"running around the room and slinging his hands and tapping everybody as he came by, kicking a little bit **** .he would grab the girls out of the men's arms and dance with them a little bit and grab another and dance with her a little bit. Then he started running around tapping men and girls on the shoulders and in the face ****
• •	he was very unruly"(P.6).
* - • * Accused was in uniform earlier in the evening but later removed his blouse (R9). There were at least 40 or $0 girls present as well as members from the whole battalion (P6). In .the opinion of Captain' Benton, accused was drunk. He had known accused since October I941 and had been and still considered that they were very good friends (R7«§).
*
Staff Sergeant William A. Lands, Company "C", 654th Tank Destroyer Battalion, saw accused at the battalion dance the night of 25 December 1343 and noticed the seme conduct described by Captain
(256)
. Benton (RI3), Accused was. drunk(Rl4),
Private First Class Leon* R. Anderson; Reconnaissance Company,
654th Tank Destroyer Battalion, was assigned as driver of a jeep on 26 December 1943* He drove accused and a Captain Giedd that evening, , v first to Dungannon,’ about, six miles from camp and then to a dance at Hotel Lough Ueagh about ten miles from camp. He returned to camp with accused a little after three' o'clock the next morning (R15),
4* Accused was sworn as a witness only as to Specification 2,
Charge II, He testified that about noon of 26 December 1943» Lieutenant Colonel Martz came to Argory Housej he was in Lieutenant Cooper’s room when Colonel Martz came in,	•
"I got up and he said, 'Be seated. How do you feel today?' I spid, 'I feel pretty bad'. And he stayed around just a few minutes. And as he left to go all I understood him to say was 'Take it easy", . ■
Accused understood this to. mean that he was not to get drunk again(Rl6-
I7). •	,
He was stopped by the guard at the gate when leaving in the jeep driven by Anderson on the night of 26 December 1943 sad admitted he might have told the guard *'I want to go by Derrygalley'", or *'I want to go over to see the, 0*D,, "(R18), He was delayed at the gate _
, about five minutes and didn't know what caused the difficulty, . He explained that when an officer needed a vehicle, he wrote out la request for it and the dispatch was signed either by accused or his executive.
He dispatched his own vehicle and the dispatch on this vehicle was made early in the day. His company was separate from the battalion and the quarter ton vehicle accused used that night was used every day for "whatever purpose comes up*(R19)« He had later heard, though he had seen no official orders, that "any vehicle dispatched after 5»00 o'clock, that is'after duty hours, would be signed by the battalion officer of the day" (R20).
*	(	He stated he was married and had two boys, one seven and one
nine years of age (R18),	(	•	-
i	__	_	__
5* On prosecution’s rebuttal, First Lieutenant Scott P, Cooper,
654th Tank Destroyer Battalion testified that he was with accused on 26 December 1943 at Argory House when Colonel Martz came in and said "take it easy. Stay in close, I want you to be ready for duty in the morning". This was said to both of them and witness understood that Colonel Martz intended both of them to remain in the camp area i.e. Derrygalley and_ Argory which are 3/4 of a mile apart (R21),
4
(257)
6.	The evidence is clear and undisputed that accused made the statements as alleged in Specifications 2 and 3 of Charge I, and that he was drunk and disorderly in uniform at the dance in a public place, as charged in Specification 1, Charge II. The court found that the staternenls made by accused to Lieutenant Colonel Martz while they were together alone in the room in Argory House as alleged in Specifications 2 §nd 3 of Charge I, were not of such an aggravated nature as to amount to conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman'within the meaning of Article of War 95* While it was neither gross nor conspicuous in character, it was undoubtedly discreditable and as such properly punishable under Article of War 96 (CM 227651, Hess).
With reference to Specification 2, Charge II, accused testified that when Lieutenant Colonel Martz visited him about noon of 26 December 1943* all be heard him say to him end Lieutenant Cooper as he left to go was "Take it easy," to which he replied, "Yes sir". He understood it to mean "I was not to get drunk again". Colonel Martz stated:
"I observed that he was not fully recovered from the evening before and I wanted him to stay in camp, so I spoke to he and Lieutenant Cooper and instructed them both in approximately this manner, 'I want you to stay in the area for the rest of the day and take care of yourself so you will be in fit shape for work tomorrow morning'."
The answer from both was, "Yes, Sir'*. These instructions were not changed. Lieutenant Cooper stated that Colonel Martz said, "Stay around the area. To be ready for duty in the morning," and that he understood that it was meant that both he and accused were to stay "in the camp area*. Accused admitted he left Argory House by jeep about seven o'clock. The driver of accused’s jeep testified that he drove first to Dungannon about six miles from camp and then to the dance at Hotel Lough Neagh about ten miles away. They returned "about 3*15" the next morning. There is substantial competent evidence that accused did violate the order given him as alleged in Specification 2, Charge II. Any conflict therein was resolved against accused by the Court and the findings will be accepted as final by the Board of Review (CM ETO L92, Lewis).
7.	The charge sheet shows accused is 38 years old.' He accepted appointment 2nd Lieutenant, Infantry Reserve Corps, 1 February 1927 and entered on active duty 25 November 19^0*
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review
- 5
(258)
is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Dismissal is authorized upon conviction of a violation of Article, of War 98.
- 6 -
TO: Commanding
T.D, Branch Office TJAG,, with ET'OUSA. 16 FEB 1944 General,‘ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S.Army*.
1.	In the case of Captain CHARLES C. MADDEN, (O-236484), 654th Tank Destroyer Battalion, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Eoard of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved* Under the provisions of Article of War 5°i» y°u now have authority to order the execution of the sentence*
2,	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office,
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1388, Eor convenienc* of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order; (ETO 1388)*	*	,
Brigadier General, United States ArnSb,' Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence as mitigated by convening authority ordered executed. GC1K> 11, ETO, 23 Feb 1944)
I
#(261)
