#(281)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
-4 SEP 1943
CENTRAL BASE"SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPHZ, EUROPEAN" THEATIR OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at London, England, 17 August 194-3; Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. United States Penitentiary,Lewisburg,Pennsyl vania.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record or trial in the case of the soldier named abbve has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	58th	Article	of War.
Specificatibn:	In	that	Private Ira N. Lane, 5th
General Hospital, Detachment' of Patients, ETOUSA, did, at or near Salisbury, England, on or about 10 May, 194-3, desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until * ' he was apprehended at London, England, on or about 23 July, 1943*
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the ‘service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for five years. The Reviewing authority approved the sentence, d esignated the United States Penitentiary, LewisbUrg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50£-.
Board of Review.
ETO 740.
UNITED STATES	)
)
v.	)
Private IRA N. LANE	(20843966),	)
5th General Hospital, Detachment	}
of Patients, ETOUSA,	APO 519.	)
I
740
nnurmrnvi a i
CONFIDENTIAL
3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows-that during the early part of June 1943 Miss Lillian Sims, *15 North Villas, Camden Square, London,
Engl»nr) met accused in London and saw him several times thereafter. On each occasion but the last, he was dressed in uniform. She last saw him on 21 July when he was dressed in civilian clothes. He said he had obtained the clothes from a fellow in a "pub", and that, he was wearing them because “he was afraid of being picked up at the time". Accused further stated to Miss Sims that he was "a bit fed up and was thinking of returning back".	He had
told her on several occasions that he intended to go back to the army pretty soon (R4-5).	•
On the evening of 23 July 1943, police constable George Gordon,
347 "C" Division, West End Central (London) noticed accused in civilian clothes on Gerrard Street, W.l (London), When accused Saw'the constable he "walked sharply' off"., Gordon, his suspicion aroused, overtook him and asked for his identity card. Accused produced a civilian identity card and, when asked by Gordon if he.had been in the anry, replied that he had been discharged froni the Canadian army two weeks before. When asked for his discharge papers, accused said that he had not as yet been discharged, - Gordon then told hjTn he was under arrest as a deSerter. On the way to the police station, accused said to Gordon: "I might just as well tell you the truth, I deserted from the American Army about two weeks because they were going to send me to the United States of America on a charge of murder or manslaughter" (R6-7),
About midnight 23 July Staff Sergeant William Manning,' Investigations Division, Provost Marshal General, "A" Detachment, saw accused at the West End Central Police Station (London) and accompanied him to the Central Base Section guardhouse. On 24 July, after being warned of his rights, accused made a voluntary statement to Manning, which statement was reduced to writing and then signed and sworn to ty accused (R7-8).
r ■	,	■	■	"
The statement, which was introduced in evidence after the defense stated that it had no objection thereto, was in substance as follows: accused joined the National Guard about July or August 1940, and his unit was later inducted into the Federal service. About 14 July 1941, he went absent •without leave for several months, and during this time he became embroiled in a fight with a Mexican in Mexico and cut him with a knife. He left the scene not knowing what ultimately happened to the man. About 18 September 1942 he was apprehended and returned to military control. As the army had no records concerning accused, he was later sent to England and subsequently transferred to the 5th General Hospital because of a broken arm. He overheard a doctor saying that he would be returned to the United States because of an old injury to a bone in his hand. He did not wish to return because of "Some family trouble". On 9 May 1943 he received a pass to Salisbury which was good until 6:00 p.m. He became intoxicated at Salisbury, decided not to return to the hospital and took the 3*00 p.m. train to London. While in London, he lived in four different rooming houses for about nine weeks, wearing his uniform and registering under his own name on each occasion. He
- 2 -
nnu n nniTl A I
CONFIDENTIAL
(283)
moved about to "avoid arousing suspicion". As his arm was still in a cast he told the persons in charge, if they asked any questions, that he was on sick leave. About two weeks prior to his arrest he bought some civilian clothes through the aid of an acquaintance and also obtained a civilian identity card from a girl both of whom he met in a pub* He worked for a building contractor for which he received a sum of about eight pounds and was still'employed by the contractor when accosted by a police constable who asked for his identity card. He showed the constable the identity card and admitted that he had been in the army. As he was unable to show the constable any discharge papers, accused told him that he "was a deserter from the American Amy" • He was then taken to the police station. When he left Salisbury on 9 May, he had 87 pounds in his possession. He lived on this sum while in London and took the job with the contractor when his money began to run low. When arrested he had four pounds, six shilling and four pence (Pros.Ex.2)•
A. Jt was stipulated that accused's service record did not show that the Articles of War had ever been read to him (R9).
5.	For the defense, accused testified that his organization was 5th
General Hospital, Detachment of Patients and that on 9 May he had a pass for Salisbury. He left Salisbury that afternoon about 3*30 p.m. with 87 pounds and "woke up" in London later that day. He put on civilian clothes about 9-10 July in order to get a job, as he never had anv money and wanted to get some cigarettes when he returned to the army (R9-10).	When he was apprehended
on 23 July, he intended to _ get his uniform the next day and then surrender at military police headquarters (Rll), From what his captain told him before
he gave him his pass, accused expected to be put in jail on his return. The captain told him not to get drunk, that "he was not supposed to let us go out, but he was doing it of his own free will" (RIO) * Accused had never had the Articles of Warread to him (Rll), and did not know the difference between desertion and absence without leave (RIO).
6,	The defense, stating that it had no objection thereto, there was admitted in evidence a purported extract copy of the morning report of accused's organization containing, entries concerning his initial absence and apprehension (RAj Pros.Ex.l). It is better practice to introduqe in evidence the original morning reports, and with the permission of the court, substitute ■ duly authenticated extract copies in lieu thereof. The document actually admitted in evidence was not the usual form of such a certified extract copy. The officer signing the exhibit did not certify that he was the official custodian of the morning reports of accused's organization, although he did sign the document as commanding officer of the detachment of patients. However, further discussion concerning the admissibility of the exhibit is unnecessary in view of the recitation of facts contained in accused's statement (Ex.2), and also in his testimony. The initial absence of accused was thus properly established in evidence. Proof of>his subsequent apprehension in London on ' the date alleged was proved'by the testimony of Constable Gordon, by the recitation of facts contained in accused's statement (Ex.2) and by Ms own testimony.
740
- 3 -
mMnnPWTlAI
CONFIDENTIAL
(284)
7. It was clearly established, both by the evidence for the prosecution and by the testimony of accused himself,‘that he went absent without leave at the time and place alleged and remained absent until he was apprehended on 23 July 1943 at London, England. During a prolonged absence of about 74 days accused changed his address several times to wavoid arousing suspicion*^ and told his various landlords that he was on sick leave. When his funds became low he obtained employment, wore civilian clothes and obtained a false civilian identity card. He was still employed when apprehended by a police constable to whom he falsely represented himself as a1discharged Canadian soldier and displayed the civilian identity card. Although he was for several weeks constantly in the vicinity of military organizations, he did not surrender to military control but resorted to various forms of subterfuge to avpid detection. The specific intent not to return to the military service of the United States was clearly established by the evidence.
8,	The charge sheet shows that accused is 32 years of age and that he enlisted 3 January 1941 with no prior service, such service being governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941*
9.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review i3 of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
10. Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement fop not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion in time of war (Article of War 42; par.53, Section II, AR 600-375# 17 May 1943} par.90, MCM., 1928; War Department letter AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941)). The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania is correct.	.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
- 4 -
pnMrmniTi»1
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
(285)
f? <sFP 1QA3
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. " 0 0	TO*	Commanding
Officer, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 887.
1.	In the case of Private IRA N. LAKE (2084-3966), Detachment of Patients, 5th General Hospital, ETGUSA, APO 519, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. You now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 740. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the-
(ETO 740).
3.	C. McUEIL,
Birigadfier General, United Stages Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General,

#(287)
