#(5)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW	
ETO 1103	20 DEC 1943
UNITED STATES )  )  v. )  Private WOODROW (NMl) BURNS ) (15046087), Detachment "A", ) Headquarters Company, Head- ■ ) quarters Command, Services ) of Supply, ETOUSA. )  )	CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES -OF SUPPLT, EUROPEAN THEATER GF OPERATIONS.
	• Trial by G.C.M., convened at London, England, 19 November 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, .total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 30 years. United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOIKING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1,	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board ofL Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	58th Article of War.
Specification:	In that Private Woodrow Burns,
Detachment "A" Headquarters Company,
Headquarters Command, Services of Supply,
ETOUSA, did,- at London, England on or about -24- September 1943, desert the service -of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he- was apprehended at Birmingham, England on or about 24 October 1943.
CHARGE II,:	Violation	of	the	69th Article of War.
(Finding of Not Guilty).
Specification:	(Finding	of	Not Guilty),
- 1 -
(6)
CHARGE III* Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification 1. In that Private Woodrow Burns,
Detachment "A" Headquarters Company, Headquarters Command, Services of Supply, ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 14 September 1943, feloniously take,’ steal, and-carry away six pounds (L6) in English money, of the value of about twenty-four dollars
*	($24.00), %en-dellaFS-($18»9©^-in-the-meaey ef-the-Hnited-Statesy the property of Private
*	First Class Anthony F. Barbano, Headquarters
Detachment, Services of Supply, ETOUSA.
*	. amended by V.O. of-appointing authority, JMC.,T.J.A.
Specification 2. In that Private Woodrow Burns,
Detachment A Headquarters Company, Headquarters Command, Services of Supply, ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 17 September 1943, feloniouslv take, steal, and carry away seven pounds (A7) in English money, of the value of about twenty-eight dollars ($28.00), one dollar ($1.00) in money of the United States, one leather wallet and personal papers of the value of about one dollar ($1.00), the property of Staff Sergeant Kenneth H. Gerber, Headquarters Detachment, Services of Supply, ETOUSA.
Specification'3. la that Private Woodrow Burns,
Detachment "A" Headquarters Company, Headquarters Command, Services of Supply, -ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 17 -September 1943, feloniouslv take, steal, and carry away five pounds (15) in English money, of the value of about twenty dollars ($20.00), one wallet and personal papers, of the value of about one dollar ($1.00), the property of Private First Class William R. Crowder, Headquarters Detachment, Services of Supply, ETOUSA.
He pleaded not guilty to ail charges and specifications and was found guilty of Charges I and III and of their respective specifications, and not guilty of Charge II and its Specification. ' Evidence of one previous conviction by summary court for absence without leave for 16 days was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit «n pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the. reviewing authority may direct for 30 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant ~to the provisions of Article of War 50£*
2
(7)
3* The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the approved sentence*
•
U* The charge sheet shows that the accused is 24. years 11 months of age* Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion during time of war (AW 42)* The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement is correct (WD, Circular #291, 10 November 1943> sec.V,3&). 3
3	"
(8)
1st Ind. .
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.	^EC 1943	T0»	Commanding
General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Amy,
1.	In the case of Private WOODRCW (NMI) BURKS (150-46087), Detachment "A" Headquarters Company, Headquarters Command, Services of Supply, ETOUSA, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^r you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1103. For convenience of reference please place' that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1103).	.... :• .
// / E. C. McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(9)
