#(391)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 835	OCT	1943
UNITED STATES )
Private COLEMAN L. DAVIS	)
(35458525), Company C, 830th	j
Engineer Aviation Battalion*	)
)
)
)
EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES CF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Ipswich, Suffolk, England, 28 August- 2 September 1943* Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for seven years* Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHCTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1. The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review*
2* Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE: Violation of the 92 Article of War,
Specification:	In that Private Coleman Lee Davis,
Company "C", 830th Engineer Aviation Battalion, did, at Nuthampstead, Herts,, England, on or about the 3rd day of August 1943, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation kill one Private Conrad Pascal, Company ”C", 830th Engineer Aviation Battalion, a human being, by stabbing him with a knife.
He pleaded not guilty and was found guilty of the Specification except the words:	"with	malice	aforethought, deliberately and with premeditation",
of the excepted words not guilty, and not guilty of the Charge but guilty of a violation of the 93rd Article of War* Evidence of two previous convictions by summary courts-martial for absence without leave for one day in violation of Article of War 61, and for being drunk on duty in violation
(392)
CONFIDENTIAL
of Article of War 85 was introduced* Ho was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for ten years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, reduced the period of confinement to seven years, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50§-«
3* The evidence for the prosecution shows that on the evening of 2 August 194-3 a Sergeant Neopolitano loaned'his bicycle to accused. The machine was locked with an "8700". About 7:00 p.m. Sergeant Donald R. Potts, Company C, 830th Engineer Aviation Battalion, loaned accused a knife on which was riveted-a, key with which to open the lock. Potts did not thereafter see the knife until the trial during which he identified a certain knife (Pros.Ex.l) as the one which he had loaned accused (R45-4&).
During the early morning hours of 3 August accused came to the medical section of his battalion for a prophylactic treatment. T/5 Charles P. Kearney, Medical Section, 830th Engineer Aviation Battalion, who was on duty as charge of quarters was asked by accused if he could keep a secret. Accused told Kearney that he had had a fight and had just knifed a fellow twice. He stated that he had Sergeant Neopolitano’s bicycle and that this fellow, whom he did not know had said "Hey Davis, where are you going with my bike?”. Accused appeared out of breath, his blouse was unbuttoned and "looked like it was washed on the end or wrinkled and wet". He was very calm, bore no signs of injury, walked steadily and did not smell of beer (R38-42).
After midnight on 3 August accused entered his tent and asked Private Thomas H. Carmichael, Company C, 830th Engineer Aviation Battalion, if he could keep a secret. He then said that he was riding his bicycle when a fellow shouted "you have my bicycle" and seized him. After fighting with the man for about fifteen minutes accused rode off leaving the fellow lying on the ground. He asked Carmichael whether he should return and push the man off to the side of the road. Carmichael noticed that the lower left part of his blouse was wet. Accused said that he had started to wash it but that the lights had gone out. He asked if he could borrow Carmichael’s blouse because he wanted to have his own either cleaned or pressed. Accused left the tent on two occasions shortly thereafter and was gone "sometime". After leaving the tent a third time to "lock the bike" he returned and went to bed. Carmichael "could smell liquor from him and was under the impression that he was drunk". He appeared to be excited. Early the following morning accused was awake and said that he could not sleep. Carmichael loaned him his blouse and noticed that accused’s wet blouse was hanging on the line. After breakfast, when asked by Carmichael with whom he had been fighting accused replied "the Chief", and that the chief was dead because he "went back and saw him lying there". "Chief" was the nickname of a man named Pascal (R42-44).
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CCi-:nnrNTjM
(393)
> r
T
■%
Between 7:00-7:20 a.m., 3 August 1943 in the Nuthampstead area, Herts, England about a half-mile from their own camp. Corporal Richard P. Usher and Technician 5th grade Arthur F, Brusewitz, both of Company A,
830th Engineer Aviation Battalion, discovered the body of a deceased American soldier lying on the edge of a ploughed field about five to seven feet from the road, just over a bank. Brusewitz went for help to the camp of the 346th Engineer Regiment which was between 200-300 feet away and returned with a lieutenant (R6-7,10-14). The body was lying on its side with the left arm under the head and the right arm extended perpendicularly to the body, Tha left leg was straight backward, the right was slightly drawn in a bend (Rll). The soldier was dressed in "O.D" shirt and trousers and "G.I" shoes (R6,ll). The shirt, which was open at the neck was covered with blood, as were the hands and face. There was a blood clot on the throat. Several blood spots were on the ground and a few coins were lying around the body. It appeared that the deceased had bled profusely (R7,9,11-12). About 25 feet away on the other side of the road were a blouse and B0.Dn cap, folded (R8,ll),
About 7:20 a.m,, 3 August as the result of information received, Captain Warren V. Hinshaw, Medical Corps, 1st Battalion, 830th Engineer Aviation Battalion, went to the scene, transferred the deceased from an ambulance of the 346th Engineer Aviation Battalion to his own ambulance and took him to the battalion dispensary (R30-31), On the body were identification tags in the name of Private Pascal, United States Army (R33)« Private Conrad Pascal was a member of Company C, 830th Engineer Aviation Battalion. Captain Raymond A. Wilcox, CE., his company commander saw him alive in the company area at 7:30 p.m., 2 August. He next saw him dead in an ambulance "of the 346th" about 7:30 a.m., 3 August (R17-18).
Captain Hinshaw examined the body of deceased in the ambulance (R3l). There was a laceration of the left jugular vein of the neck three inches long, which severed the vein. There was another superficial laceration on the right of the neck about four inches in length, a very superficial laceration on the bridge of the nose, a three inch laceration of the left chest posterior and lacerations of the left lumbar area and of the right arm (R31-32). Captain Hinshaw testified that in his opinion deceased had been dead about six or eight hours (R33>36-37). The injury to the internal jugular vein would have resulted in a loss of consciousness within a few seconds (R32,34)> and was undoubtedly the cause of death (R36), It was also the opinion of Captain Hinshaw that the injurv to the jugular vein was caused by a sharp instrument such as a knife (R32) as were all of the other wounds (R36).
On 4 August, after being warned of his rights accused made a statement to Sergeant Philip C. Erennan,. Investigation Division, F.M.C.,
ETO. Brennan wrote the statement, each page of which was signed by accused whose affidavit thereto was also taken (R20-22,28). Over the objection of the defense (R22) the statement was admitted in evidence (R29j Pros.Ex,2). In substance accused stated that on the evening of 2 August
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
1943, he borrowed Sergeant Neopolitano s bicycle and went to the Chequers pub in Anstey where he and the deceased Pascal each drank between seven' and ten pints of beer from about 9*00 p.m., to 10*00 or 10*30 p.m. when they left for camp. They talked outside the pub with an Englishman and his wife, and later at ’’site No.6" met a Private Sisler. After they left Sisler, Pascal told accused he wanted to go back to Anstey to see a woman and wanted to borrow money. Accused had only ”a little" and told Pascal it was all he had.
"He then said he would take my money and the bike, I told him if he was going to start any trouble I would leave him and go back to my area alone, I started to get on my bike and he grabbed it, knocking me to the road.
He took off his blouse and slung it to the side of the road. When I got up he made a pass at me, I ducked and he clinched me. The fight started on the west side of the road and moved over to the embankment on the east side of the road. Paschal knew where I was carrying my money, which was in my right hand front pants pocket. He kept trying to take the money out of my pocket. I managed to get the knife out of my pocket, the same place where my money was and open it, just as we fell over on to the embankment. I kept cutting him at his back on the left side and when I was getting up from the embankment I swung at his left shoulder and I know I hit him with the open knife. I managed to get away from him and got on my bike. As I left him he was standing slightly bent over, feeling of his left side with his right hand. He said to me 'I'll get even with you, Davis, for this and I'll kill you, God damn you"*. (Pros.Ex.2).
Accused went to his tent and told Carmichael that he had just been in a fight and cut a fellow. He then washed his hands, the knife, his handkerchief and washed the blood spots from his blouse. He went to the medical section for a prophylactic and told the charge of quarters that he had been in a fight ’’where the 346th is" and cut a man. He wiped the blood from his blouse with some gauze. He returned to his tent, left to lock the bicycle and then went to bed. The next morning he cleaned his blouse with gasoline and removed a blood spot from his trousers. Accused believed the fight occurred between 10-10*30 p.m. and midnight, 2 August.
He had been on good terms with deceased and had never had any previous trouble with him. He killed Pascal to protect himself and his property
— 4 "
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(395)
and used the knife as it was his only means of self-protection.	He
identified a knife with a key attached shown to him by Sergeant Brennan as the instrument he used during the fight (Pros.Ex,1),
Accused had previously given a knife to Captain Raymond E.
Wilcox, CE*, his company commander, on the morning of 3 August (R17,20). At the trial Captain Wilcox identified a knife as the one which accused had given him but stated that a key was missing from the clip (R46). The captain who had been present when accused made the foregoing statement to Sergeant Brennan, testified that when shown the same knife by Brennan, accused stated that he had borrowed it the previous evening for the purpose of tinlocking a bicycle, and that the knife was used in connection with the stabbing. The knife was admitted in evidence, the defense stating that it had no objection (R46-47; Pros.Ex.l), The trial judge advocate stated that a key which had been attached to the knife by a clip had been lost "while awaiting trial" (R20).
4* Upon being advised of his rights accused elected to make an unsworn statement through counsel which was read to the court (R48). In substance the statement was similar to that made before Sergeant Brennan (Pros.Ex,2). During the fight accused realized that he was "getting licked". Pascal's strength, his threats, "and the way he was hurting me were surprising". "There was no one near to give me any help". Accused took out the knife belonging to Sergeant Potts and began to cut at Pascal intending to hurt him only enough so that he would let go and accused could escape. He did not aim a cut at deceased's throat but struck at his shoulder with the knife. Just as accused started the blow toward the shoulder, deceased broke away and changed the position of his body so that the knife cut him in the neck. Pascal's death was therefore an accident. Accused "did not go at him" any harder than he thought necessary. He knew of no other way to protect himself, save his money and the borrowed bicycle (R48-49).
5.	When both the prosecution and defense had.rested, the president of the court asked whether the prosecution knew of any witnesses who saw accused between 7i00 p.m. and the time of the incident. The prosecution and defense then stipulated that if present Private First Class Arlo F. Sisler would testify that on 2 August he saw accused and deceased drinking in the Chequers pub in "Anster". They appeared friendly and in good spirits. On the way home he saw them talking with another soldier and
an Englishman and woman, and later saw them at "number 6 site" between 11-12:00 p.m. Both men appeared to be under the influence of drink. Pascal wanted to return with Sisler to pick up another soldier but accused and Sisler persuaded him to accompany the former back to camp. When Sisler left, accused and Pascal appeared to be on good terms (R49-5l)«
6.	The defense moved to strike the testimony of Corporal Usher and Technician 5th Grade Brusewitz with reference to discovery of the body, on the ground that "it is not connected with any incident. He hasn't definitely established at all that the body he found was that of Pascal",
- 5 -
CONFIDENT IAL
CONFIDENTIAL
The court deferred action on the motion until the prosecution presented further* evidence (R9,14) •	Connecting evidence establishing that, the body
found by Usher and Brusewitz wa3 actually that of Pascal, the person alleged to have been killed by accused, was then introduced by the prosecution, whereupon the law member properly overruled the motion (R38).
The defense objected to the admission of accused’s statement to Sergeant Brennan, The basis of the objection in substance was that the statement was not a confession but contained admissions against interest, that prior to the introduction in evidence of the statement the prosecution should introduce testimony corroborative of the facts admitted in the statement, and further that the document was mostly composed of irrelevant and immaterial matters (R22-26). The court allowed defense counsel to cross-examine the witness who was testifying as to the circumstances surrounding the taking of the statement, and reserved its decision as to the motion (R26). The motion of the defense was later denied and the document was admitted in evidence (R29; Pros,Ex,2), The defense then moved to strike the statement from the record on the same grounds. This motion was also denied (R29-30).
The statement was a complete version of the incident by accused, including his movements both prior and subsequent to the quarrel. He freely admitted killing Pascal but in substance asserted ‘that his use of the knife was justified in that the weapon was his only means of protecting both himself and his property. After the statement had been admitted, the prosecution introduced evidence that shortly after the incident accused told witnesses that he had been in a fight and had knifed a man. The next morning he informed Carmichael that the man was the "Chief" (Pascal) and that he was dead. Accused subsequently made an unsworn statement at the trial in which he in substance corroborated the very facts recited in the statement made to Sergeant Brennan, In view of these circumstances a detailed discussion of the arguments advanced by defense counsel concerning the admissibility of the statement to Brennan is unnecessary,
7,	Evidence of the details of the homicide was furnished only by accused’s statement to Sergeant Brennan and his unsworn statement at the trial, together with the opinion of Captain Hinshaw based upon the nature of the injuries suffered by deceased. Accused’s narrative of events was not controverted by the prosecution. The court was confronted with the issue of whether the prosecution had sustained the burden of proving the offense of murder. One of the principal elements to be proved was that of malice aforethought. Whether such proof had been made was a question of fact for decision by the court.
"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought." (M3M., 1928, pax,148&, p.162).
The record herein contains no evidence of either malice or premeditation by accused.
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(397)
* r
■u
'I
"Absence of design to effect death or grievous bodily harm, the homicide is voluntary manslaughter, and not murder, although the act was unlawful and malicious." (l Wharton's Criminal, Law, 12th Ed., sec,426, pp.649-650).
"Assault upon accused, actual or attempted, by the person killed, an attest to commit serious personal injury, or equivalent circumstances,
(is) necessary to reduce a homicide to voluntary manslaughter" (l Wharton's Criminal Law, 12th Ed., sec.426, p.651).
An instance of sufficient provocation in the case of voluntary manslaughter is assault and battery inflicting actual bodily harm (JEM., 1928, par,149a, p.166),
The court apparently believed that the death of Pascal was caused by accused without intent to kill. It properly rejected his claim that the homicide was justified because of the necessity of protecting himself and his property.
"A slight assault does not justify killing with a deadly weapon" (l Wharton's Criminal Law, sec.426, p.651).
Trespass and other injuries to property are instances of inadequate provocation in a case of homicide (lEM., 1928, par.149a, p.166).
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the evidence was legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty (CM ETC 72, Jacobs and Farley).
8.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 26 years of age, and that he was inducted 16 June 1942. He had no prior service.
9.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence;
10.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETCDSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years* By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of voluntary manslaughter (18 USC. 454? 35 Stat. 114-3) • As accused is
- 7 -
iDt
