#(9)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the	_	.
European Theater of -Onerations APO 871	*	'
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 1107
% 4 DEC m3
U N I TED
STATES )
EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
v.
)
)
First Lieutenant JOHN JOSEPH
JOHN JOSEPH )
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Watford, Hertfordshire, England 20 November,1943. . Sentences
SHUTTLEWORTH (0-1101213) Company C, 346th Enginee: General Service Regiment
*■'•*■'* WUiUV* ^	,	WVMWVUW
To be dismissed the service.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	. Accused was tried upon the following Charge and specifications* . CHARGE* Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification* 1. In that First Lieutenant John Joseph Shuttleworth, Company "C", Three Hundred and Forty Sixth Engineer General Service Regiment, was, at Kings Langley, Herts, England, on or about 28 September 1943, drunk while driving a vehicle.
Specification* 2. In that First Lieutenant John Joseph Shuttleworth, Company nCn, Three Hundred and Forty Sixth Engineer General Service Regiment, did at Watford, Herts, England, on or about 28 September 1943, wrongfully take and use, without lawful permission, a certain automobile, to wit* a Government Vehicle, No, 2083712, the property of the United States, of a value of more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
1
(10)
He pleaded not guilty to and was found .guilty of the Charge and of its specifications. Evidence of one previous conviction on 4 May 1943 by General Court-Martial for being drunk and disorderly in uniform'in a public place in violation of Article of War 96 was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer, Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA. approved the sentence and withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50|-. The Board of Review has treated the record of trial as if forwarded by the reviewing authority under the provisions of Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing execution, thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50%.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution was in substance as follows:
. It was stipulated that Government vehicle No. 2083712 was pro- . perty of the United States and of a value of more than 50 dollars (RIO).
Prior.to 28 September 1943> Captain Louis B. Zurborg, Company C, 346th Engineer General Service Regiment, accused's immediate commanding ' officer, called the officers of the company together and informed them that no vehicle would be removed from the company motor park after 1800 hours without his permission. Accused was present when this order was given (R6). Use of vehicles after 1800 hours was not prohibited but pursuant to regimental orders a weekly report was forwarded to regimental headquarters concerning vehicles used after that hour (R6,8). Also by virtue of regimental orders, officers were allowed to drive vehicles "on the actuS£9sxte" but enlisted personnel assigned by the regiment were to drive them elsewhere (R6-7). On the night of 28 September 1943 accused's company was stationed in Watford at Cassiobury Park. He was the senior officer then present in his company, was duty officer in charge of the camp, and had no duties other than at Cassiobury Camp (R7,9). It was . customary for the junior officers to arrange among themselves who should be duty officer on any night and .a system of "Rotatiqn .by roster" was maintained (R9). An arrangement existed in the various companies of the battalion whereby one officer could substitute as duty officer for another, but Captain Zurborg, who was not in camp on the evening of 28 September, did not know whether' accused had arranged for anyone to take his place (R8-9). The company had one jeep, the last three digits of its number being "712" (R7). .. It was not required that a duty officer obtain Captain Zurborg's permission to use a vehicle after 1800 hours (R9), and on the evening of 28 September accused did not ask the captain is permission to use the company "jeep" outside the area, nor was any such permission granted (R7;. Accused had been assigned to the company about 1 May 1943 and as far as Captain Zurborg's knowledge was'concerned, the character of the performance of his duties was "very good" (R7-8).
About 10:15 or 10:20 p.m., 28 September 1943 Michael Dunham,
13 Belham Road, Kings Langley, Hertfordshire, England, was cycling through 2
2
(11)
Kings Langley when he was overtaken by. a jeep which was "swerving from side to side".' For about 25 yards the driver slowed down, then turned ; and went to the right of the road into a hedge, reversed on to the pavement and turned the car towards Watford. He then reversed again and turned towards Kernel Hempstead. The back wheel was "knocking" and was dented, Dunham asked the driver, who was the only one in the vehicle, what the matter was and he replied "I am drunk". He staggered and his speech was blurred. -The distance from Watford to the scene of the occurrence was five miles. At the trial when asked if he knew accused, Dunham testified that he knew.his name. Asked if he recognized him he testified "It is difficult to say, he had his working clothes on, it was dark at the time". At’tlie conclusion of his testimony the president of the court asked accused to stand and asked Dunham if he was the man who had been driving the car. Dunham replied "Yes, I think it is now but at the time his hair was all fair. He had nothing on his hair. His hair was not done" (RIO-13).
Police Constable Ernest S. Stone, stationed at Kings Langley, arrived at the scene about 11:30 p.m. and saw a vehicle numbered 2083712, the right rear wheel of which was "buckled". Accused, whom he identified at the trial, was attempting to use the telephone in a kiosk. He smelled .strongly of intoxicants, was unsteady, and his manner of speech convinced Stone that he was drunk and "not in any fit state to be in ■ charge of a vehicle on a public road" (R13-14).	The road was 24 feet
wide where the accident occurred (K20)..
About.10:35 p.m. that evening Special Constable Herbert‘H. Healey, 36 Blackwell Road, Kings Langley, was summoned to the scene and found the car in the,middle of the road, "Lieutenant Shuttleworth" in the call-box, smelling very strongly of alcohol and using "some very bad language. *** he was blessing our telephone communications in general, giving them a good old leg up.'*** he was giving them that the thing was no good and all the rest.of it." It was Healey’s opinion that he was "under the influence of drink". He said that he was going to drive back to Watford, got in and.started the vehicle but then immediately obeyed Healey’s order to get out of the car. Asked at the' trial if he knew accused’s name Healey replied "Lieut, Shuttleworth". When asked if he saw him.in court he testified "I am afraid I cannot recognize the gentleman here this morning anyway. When I last saw the accused he had his hair ruffled and he looked anything other than an American Lieutenant". At the conclusion of the cross-examination of the witness, the president of the court said "Accused please stand. Who is that person?" Healey replied "That is the accused" (R15-16).	•
.After midnight Captain Hiram P. Bamberger, 978th Military Police Company, arrived at the scene and accused admitted to him that he had been driving the vehicle. There was an odor on his breath and "*** it was indisputable that he had been drinking" ■» However, Captain Bamberger could not say that he was drunk.' "I would not say that he was entirely
drunk, but too drunk to drive a car”. He was wearing what appeared to be a pair of moccasins. He was not placed under, arrest at that time (R17-19).	•	v
.In the opinion of Corporal Charles H, Hurley, 978th Military Police Company, who arrived at the scene between 10:15-10*30 p,m,, accused was then under the influence of liquor and although his speech was normal, he was not in condition to drive a vehicle. There was an odor of alcohol about him. The right rear wheel of the car was broken off at the base of the cone and the lugs were stripped. The scene of the accident was between six and eight miles from Watford, (R19-20),
4.	For the defense. Second Lieutenant John K. Petty, (Jompany B, 34.6th Engineer.General Service Regiment, testified that a little after 6:00 p,m. 28 September, about four or five officers, including accused, gathered together before dinner. 1 "There was a quart bottle on the table *** I didn't see everybody take a drink, but I figure they took about one, maybe some of them took two, but I don't think they took-more than that". After supper Lieutenant Petty "heard the bottle open1! but he did not know whether it was entirely consumed during the evening. Between 8:00-9:00.p.m..accused said "*** he had to go but he was duty officer, so I was sitting around and was not going out, so said 'If you want to go, go ahead and I will do it"!. Accused's speech was then "alright", and when he left about 10:00 p,o. he did not stagger, was not drunk, and in Lieutenant Petty's opinion was capable of driving a car. Although accused had been drinking with the other officers, Lieutenant Petty did not know how much he had consumed, A Lieutenant Oyler-was present that evening but was in the Hospital at the time of the trial •-(R22-24-).	...
The prosecution and defense then stipulated that if Second , ■ Lieutenant Jack E,_0yler, Company B, 346th Engineer General Service Regi ment, were present in court and sworn as a witness he would testify as follows:	.
" . In reference to Lt. Shuttleworth, 1st Lt. Co,'C' 346th Engr Gen Serv Regt, on or about Sept, 28, 1943 at about 2130 - hours. He was not drunk to my knowledge."
(R24).
The record of trial then recites:.
"The court was reminded that it was not necessary to accept this stipulation and . that the ruling was made that the stipulation be not accepted. The President pointed out, in explanation, that several witnesses had testified to the condition of the accused and it was unusual to bring a stipulation of that nature into the court."
(13)
The defense then stated!
"It is merely corroborative testimony, if there is more than one person there able \	to testify the accused would like. the	,
benefit of their testimony." (R25).
The record recites, that the court closed and on re-opening "objected, to the stipulation being introduced" (R24-25).
, Second Lieutenant Cleveland Romero, Company B, 34.6th Engineer General Service Regiment, testified that "we all took a drink before supper" and that upon the officers' return to the hut "there was some left in the quart and it was passed around again". It was then about 8:30 or 9:00 p.m. Lieutenant Romero went to bed at 9s30 p.m. and accused was not drunk at that time (R25-26).
Accused, having been advised of his rights elected to remain silent (R26).
4.	Errors and irregularities.
{a). On direct examination Captain Bamberger testified that accused admitted to him that he had driven the car. The defense objected and stated that it should be shown that accused had been cautioned as to his rights. The law member sustained the objection and the defense then moved that the court not consider the testimony concerning accused's admission. Captain Bamberger then testified on direct examination that the "statements" were voluntarily given but that he did not advise accused of his rights at that time. The court closed and upon being opened the president announced that the objection was not sustained (R17). The statement by accused that he had been driving the car was an .admission only, and as such it was properly received in evidence without any showing of its voluntary nature (CM 227793, Anderson: CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al; MCM., 1928, par.U4&, p.117).
(b)	On direct examination Lieutenant Romero was asked if he had any idea how many drinks accused might have had that evening. The president of the court stated: "The number of drinks has nothing to do with whether the man was drunk or not" (R26). The president's.statement was manifestly ah expression of .personal opinion. The number of drinks which accused consumed during the evening, his meeting with Dunham having occurred about 20 minutes after his departure, had a material bearing on the issue of drunkenness and the witness should have been allowed to answer the question.
(c)	When asked if he recognized accused, Dunham testified: "It is difficult to say, he had his working clothes on, it was dark at the time". At the conclusion of the testimony the president told accused to
- 5 -
(U)
stand and then asked Dunham if he was the man who had been driving the car. He replied "Yes, I think it is now ***", and testified as to a difference in the condition of accused's hair (RIO,13).	When asked if
he saw accused in court, Constable Healey testified "I am afraid I cannot recognize the gentleman here this morning anyway ***■#" (R15). At the conclusion of the cross-examination of Healey, the president of the court said "Accused please stand. Who is that person?" Healey replied "That is the accused" (R16). Both witnesses had testified that they knew accused's name to be Lieutenant Shyttleworth (RIO,16).	Although
it was beyond all question established by the evidence that accused was the man involved in the commission of the offenses alleged, the action of the president in pointedly directing the attention of the two witnesses to accused in the manner disclosed by the record was improper and is a practice npt to be. condoned. However, the action of the president in ordering accused to present himself for identification did not violate the prohibition of the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution against compelling one to give evidence against himself (LICE!., 1928. par.122b, p.l30j Holt v. United States, 218 U.S. 245, 54 L.Ed.,102l).
(d)	From the record of trial it appears that the witnesses were excused upon the completion of their testimony, but it is not stated therein that they withdrew from the court room.
I
(e)	The refusal of the court to accept the stipulation that if Lieutenant Oyler were present in court and sworn he would testify that at 9:30 p.m. accused was not drunk to his knowledge, was plainly erroneous (R25). A stipulation need not be accepted by the court nor is the court bound by a stipulation even if received (MOM., 1928, par.126b, p.136). Hov/ever, the issue as to whether accused was drunk while driving the' vehicle was one of fact and was, of course, of paramount importance with respect to the question of his guilt or innocence of the offense alleged. When the stipulation was offered in evidence, the president of the court remarked that "*** s.everal witnesses had testified to the condition of accused and it was unusual to bring a stipulation of that nature into court". Five witnesses had then testified adversely
to accused with respect.to the issue of intoxication, and the evidence of but one witness which was beneficial to accused had been produced by the defense. Stipulations similar in character to the one offered are commonly admitted in trials by courts-martial. Although the accident occurred about 10:20 p.m. and the time_ involved in the proffered stipulation was 9:30 p.m., evidence as to accused's sobriety at 9*30 p.m. was material to the issue and the stipulation should Have been admitted. The court did receive in evidence the testimony of two .witnesses for the defense that accused was not drunk about 9:30 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. respectively. However, in view of the clear, convincing and detailed testimony by several witnesses as to the fact of accused's intoxication at the time of the accident and shortly, thereafter, and his actual admission to one such witness that he was drunk, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the refusal of the court to admit the stipulation as
- 6 -
(15)
to Lieutenant Oyler1s testimony did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused.
(f)	The review of the Staff Judge Advocate of the Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA refers to other irregularities appearing in the record of .trial. Further comment thereon is Unnecessary.
The foregoing errors and irregularities when considered in solido did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused.
6.	The evidence clearly established accused's guilt of the offense alleged in Specification 1 of the Charge (driving a vehicle while drunk). The accident occurred about 10:20 p.m. He admitted to Dunham at the time that he was drunk. He staggered and his speech was blurred. According to Corporal Hurley who arrived at the scene before 10:30 p.m., accused was under the influence of liquor, had an odor of alcohol about him and although his speech was normal, he was not in condition to drive a vehicle. Special Constable Healey was summoned to the scene about 10:35 p.m, and testified that accused smelled very strongly of alcohol, was very profane and "was under the influence of drink". According to Constable Stone who arrived about 11:30 p.m,, accused smelled strongly of intoxicants, was unsteady, and his manner of speech indicated that he was drunk and not in a fit state to drive. Captain Bamberger, who did not arrive until after midnight testified that "*** it was indisputable that he had been drinking," and that there was an odor on his breath.
The Captain could not say- that accused was drunk'but did testify that he was "too drunk to drive a car". Two witnesses for the defense testified that accused was not drunk at about 9?30 and 10:00 p.m. The question of drunkenness was one of fact for the sole determination of the court.
There is substantial competent evidence to sustain the findings of the court. therefore the Board of Review can not disturb the same (CM 145791 (1921), CM'161333 (1924), CM 192609, Rehearing (1930, Dig.Ops.JAG.,1912-40, sec.408(2), p.259). The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 1 of the Charge*
7.	With reference to Specification 2 of the Charge (wrongfully
taking and using a Government vehicle without lawful permission), accused was duty officer on the evening of 28 September. There was no evidence that he-accepted the offer of Lieutenant Petty to take his place in that capacity. It is true that the duty officer was not required to secure the permission of Captain Zurborg to use a-vehicle after 1800 hours. However, it was established by the evidence that as duty officer that . evening, accused had no duties other than in Camp Cassiobury at Watford. Furthermore, by virtue of regimental orders officers were allowed to drive vehicles only "on the actual works site" but enlisted personnel assigned by the regiment were to drive them elsewhere. Accused was driving the vehicle between five an^ eight miles away from Watford while he was in a drunken condition. The evidence showed that when questioned by- Dunham he was the only one in the vehicle. The foregoing evidence was legally sufficient to support the findings of,guilty of Specification 2 of the Charge.	*
O £ Q o q> - 7 -
t 1* CU.i) i) 1
„ " • \
8.	The charge sheet shews that accused is 29 years of age and enlisted in the regular army 3 October 1938. Ha served from 3 October 1938 to about December 1938 in the 29th Engineers (Topographic)j from December 1938 to August 1939 in the 65th Engineer Company (Topographic); from August 1939 to March 1940 in the 4th Engineer Battalion (Combat); -and from March 1940 to June 1942 as first sergeant at Fort(V^ilvoir, . • -Virginia in the ERTC. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army of the United-States on 24 June,1942.
9.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial , rights of accused were committed during the trial.’ The Board of Review is of-the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Dismissal is authorized upon conviction of violation.of Article of War.964
1st Ind
(17)
TO,'Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. % 4 DEC 1943 TOrCommanaW General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Amy.
1.	In the case of First Lieutenant JOHN JOSEPH SHUTTIEWQRIH (0-1101213), Company C, 346th Engineer General Service Regiment, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50J-, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. | The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1107. For convenience! of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the'crderij (ETO 1107).
Brigadier General, United States Assistant Judge Advocate General
(Sentence ordered executed. GCUD 29, ETO, 27 Dec 1943)

#(19)
