#(379)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 832
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private KENNETH M. WAITE	)
(6834-779), Replacement	)
Company "Bn Separate.	)
]
)
)
2 6 OCT 1943
VffiSTEEN BASE SECTION, SHIVJCES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Seaforth Barracks, Lancashire, England, 26-27 August 1943* Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. Federal Penitentiary, Lewis-burg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHCCEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1. The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2* Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE: Violation of the 92nd Article of War,
Specification:	In that Private Kenneth M; Waite
Replacement Company ”B" Separate, did, at Aintree, Lancashire, England, on or about 3 August 194-3, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Annie Parry.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence of two previous convictions by special courts-martial of absence without leave for 2 and 42 days respectively was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such placl^the reviewing authority may direct, for the term of his natural life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but reduced the period of confinement to 20 years, designated the Federal Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50jT«
- 1 -
r r‘ * •< :
C ;'.«rlO£UTlAL
3. The testimony for the prosecution was, substantially, as follows: Annie Parry, a 20 year old factory worker had met accused at the bar of a "pub" in Aintree ‘'(R6) the day his organization moved into that place on 23 July 194-3 (R97). She and a girl friend, Grace Donoghue left with accused and another soldier when the place closed* On the way home Annie and the accused stopped in a doorway (R7,4l) Tor about an hour, "necking, kissing and talking" (R42,98) during which time "he asked me, would I? -and then said he was sorry; he knew where to get those kind of people, but he didn’t want them" (R7,42). A date was arranged'for the next Sunday night 25 July 194-3 but was not kept. However, on Monday night, 2 August 194-3 > Annie and Grace returned to the same "pub".	Each consumed 4- or 5
half-pint drinks of mild beer and "draught" Bass. Annie accosted accused at about 10:00 p.m. outside the public house (R6,4-3) and gave him a cigarette. Annie and Grace then started home on a tramcar, but got off at the first stop and returned to the public house. Annie again spoke to accused (R7,4l) and at about 10:30 to 10:4-0 walked with him down the main street (Ormskirk Road) (R8,45) to accused’s barracks where he obtained some cigarettes. Grace had walked on ahead with another American. Annie and accused overtook Grace and her American soldier (R4-8) who said something "about a jeep - that he would drop the young ladies home in it". Grace and companion walked on in front and Annie suggested following them but accused said "No, he has got to come back again down here to report for duty". Annie and accused together then walked down Ormskirk Road. Reaching an American storage camp, accused called the guard, gave him a cigarette and told him of the other American who was "reporting for duty" and "driving a jeep" (R8,46). Accused and Annie then walked down the lane by the storage area. Accused informed Annie he was tailing her to meet her friend and the jeep (R15,16,4-6), but she discovered the lane was a cul-de-sac (R9).	She had never been down this lane before (R16) and
did not know the area about Aintree very well (R4S). While in the lane accused grabbed Annie and knocked her down saying to her "I have got to have you". He struggled with her saying what he was going to do to her. Accused ripped and tore her underwear (R12) while struggling with her, hitting her when she yelled and "mauling me inside" (R9). He hit her in the face everytime she screamed for help (R10,6l) and called her a dam fool. He held his hand over her mouth (Rll,6l) so she could not scream. He lay sideways on her on the ground, holding her while he unfastened his trousers (Rll,49). She continued to struggle (R12,47) in order to get away from him (R16) and to scream as loudly as possible (R50). He hurt one of her legs in stretching them apart (R12), "Then we were struggling for a good bit and then he got his private inside me" and "it hurt me" (R17j. "He told me then to take my blouse off and I told him I did not have a blouse on, that it was a dress. He said I would have to get undressed for him and I think that was how I come to stand up *■**". She explained that when she got up from him she said to accused: "I want to go to the lavatory. He said, you won’t come straight back. Yes, I said,
I will come back. You hold my handbag and I won’t be a minute, and I will be back (R21), When I gave him my handbag I walked away from him
2
COfiF^ENTIAL
(381)
and then I ran down the lane into the main road" (RIO,22) to the same camp where accused had previously stopped to speak to the guard. There she encountered an "RAF chap" who was on guard (R22). She Identified a picture of the camp (Pros.Ex.J) where she met the RAF guard and also a picture of the situs of the alleged offense (Pros.Ex.K). Because she was so confused, Annie did not know what she told the guard. He took her inside the camp and another man (Corporal Holland) took her to the police station (RIO).
She was given into the custody of the matron who supplied her with a cup of tea. She was then physically examined by the police doctor and an American doctor. Her clothes were removed and retained and a complete change of clothing was brought from her home (Rll) by her sister (R92), Her various articles of clothing so retained were identified by her in court as the garments she wore that night and were admitted in evidence as Pros.Exs. "B" to "G" inclusive (R13,14,19), as were also the gloves (Pros.Ex.H) she had with her (R20). She was unable to say how long she was in the lane with the accused, other,than that "it was a long time” (R17). Her knickers had no stains on them before she went down the lane with accused (R13,19) but she noticed blood on them and the stains on her dress when she removed them at the police station (R19,20). She identified her handbag (Pros.Ex.l) when presented in court which she had last seen when she gave it to accused to hold for her so she "could run down the lane”.
Dr. Ronald Sinclair Riley of Aintree, Liverpool, a civilian physician, examined Annie at 3*20 a.m. on the morning of 3 August 1943 (R25). She stated she had been criminally assaulted between 11:30 and 12:30 of the night of August 2nd and 3rd. She had a bleeding scar on the outside of the right leg an inch to an inch and a half long, and some blood stained serum on the inner side of the left thigh and around the vulva. Both the outer and inner lips of the genital were swollen. The hymen was bruised and torn and there was a discharge from these areas (R23). The injury to the hymen could have been caused by the penetration of a male penis (R28). It had a tear made "within a period of hours" and was bleeding (R24). At the time of the examination "she was definitely distressed and showed signs of tears and generally appeared to be upset" (R26). He examined Annie again at 7:45 a.m. (R27) the same day (R26), at the same place when medical officer Lieutenant Victor Larnpka of the United States Army was present. The doctor noticed no odor of alcoholic drink on her breath (R27).
John Cropper, a police officer of Liverpool, identified several photographs of the road and lane leading to the scene of the alleged crime and of the location of the alleged crime itself which were introduced in evidence as Pros.Ex. "J" to "Q" inclusive. He also identified a pair of ladies gloves, Pros.Ex."H" and a United States Army cap receiyed as Pros,
Ex. "R", both appearing in pictures of the scene of the alleged crime (R29-32).
Alan Thompson, a police officer of the Lancashire Constabulary, identified the items of Annie’s clothing (Pros.2x."B" to "G" inclusive) (R33) as well as the articles of clothing of accused and his towel (R8l) which were received in evidence as Pros.Ex."S" to "W" inclusive. All of same
CONFIDENTIAL
were delivered by him to David Noel Jones for biological examination (R33-35).
David Noel Jones, Staff Biologist at the Home Office in Preston of the Forensic Science Laboratory, described the grass and dirt stains he found on the back of Pros.Ex."F", a coatj and the dirt, grass and bloodstains on the back of the shoulders, and a human, male seminal stain on the inside of the back of Pros.Ex. "E", a grey frock.	Pros.Ex."D", an underskirt, had a bloodstain on the bottom back (R37).	On Pros.Sx."C", a vest,
he found dirt and bloodstains in the rear center and on Pros.Ex."B", the “ knickers, the crotch area was very heavily bloodstained (R33). The ladies’ stockings, Pros.3x."G", were dirty and bloodstained and one had a large hole about knee level (R38-39). Accused’s trousers. Pros.Ex.”3”, showed dirt-stains on the knees and traces of blood on the inside of the fly. Pros.Ex. "T", an army shirt, had traces of human blood on the buttonhole side of the bottom, both inside and outside, but heavier on the outside. The bottom of the front center part of the front of Pros.Ex,”U”, a vest, was heavily stained with human blood on the outside, less on the inside. Pros.Ex."U", the trunks, was heavily stained on the outside of the fly area with human blood with some on the top part of the legs, and the towel, Pros.Ex."W", had a few small smears of blood upon it (R39).
Frank Law Bramley, a Police War Reserve Constable, was on duty the night of August 2nd-3rd at the police station in Aintree when Annie came in accompanied by Corporal Holland. She was in a very distressed condition. Her clothing was disarranged, torn and stained. She "was trembling very much and crying tremendously" (R52). She said she had been assaulted by an American soldier. The same night while patrolling Ormskirk Road, Park Lane and Coppull Lane at about 12:20 on August 3rd, he met a young lady, Grace Donoghue who said she was waiting for her friend who was down the road with an American soldier. After conversing with Bramley, Grace went off in the direction of Liverpool (R5A).
John Leslie Johnson, Royal Air Force, Aintree, was on guard duty until one o’clock the morning of 3 August 1943, as a sentry. During said tour of duty a young lady named Ann ran up the road.	She was excited and
nervous and said a Yankee soldier had assaulted her.	He called the guard
commander who took her to the police station (R56).
Corporal Eric John Holland, N.C.O, in charge of the guard, No. 5, M.T. Company, No.l Section, Royal Air Force, Aintree, was summoned to the gates shortly after midnight, 3 August 19A3 by the guard Johnson who was "supporting this Mss Parry”. She was very distressed and in a hysterical condition and said she had been assaulted by an American soldier who was down the road. She was in a very disheveled condition. Her leg was bleeding and her sticking was all torn. She was crying (R59) and hysterical because of which he could "not make much sense out of her". He took her to the police station (R60).
- A -
f 'NfiTINTIM.
CONFIDEN IIAL
(333)
Private Sam E. Orange, Replacement Company "B", Separate, Depot 0-629, Aintree, saw accused on the night of 2-3 August 194-3, when he came to the point where witness was posted on guard "between 12:30 and 1 o’clock" after midnight. The post was in the U.S. Storage Area. Accused asked for a match and had a girl with him but witness did not know her or how she was dressed. Accused and the girl immediately turned and walked away (R63)« About an hour later accused came again and wanted another match (R64).
Grace Donoghue, a prosecution witness, told substantially the same story as Annie related of the happenings of the night of 2-3 August 1943 while the two girls were together. After the "pub" closed they met accused and another soldier. She walked along Ormskirk Road vdth the other American soldier and Annie and accused followed. Witness and her soldier went into a lane and sat there talking for about an hour. When they returned into Crmskirk Road they met Annie and accused at a point opposite the R.A.F. camp. The American soldier with witness spoke about securing a jeep to take Annie and witness home instead of walking all of the way. The soldier "had to be on duty at 12 o’clock" and departed* She was to wait outside camp until he came with the jeep. It was getting dark. A policeman approached her and asked for her identification card (R66). After her conversation with the policeman, she went down the lane and shouted Annie’s name a couple of times but obtaining no answer she took it for granted that Annie had gone home. VJitness then went home (R68). It was about twelve o’clock (R69).
John Jackson, Inspector of Police, Seaforth Station, testified he was called to the police station just after two o'clock the morning of 3 August 1943 where he found Annie Parry. She was in a distressed condition. She was crying. Her face was dirty and her hair tumbled about her face.
Her general condition was disheveled. ^er clothing was disarranged, her jacket sleeve was tom as was her stocking on her right leg which leg also had a bleeding scratch. He had her examined at 3*20 a.m. by the police-surgeon who delivered to witness four slides with smears and two swabs he had taken from Annie, YYitness later took possession of the clothing she was wearing; a blue jacket with right sleeve torn and stained; a grey gabardine dress, also stained; a mauve underslip, stained; a ladies’ white vest, stained; a pair of ladies knickers, stained and torn; and a pair of stockings, one of which was stained and tom. He identified these garments as Pros.EX."B" to "G" inclusive (R74)« About 4*00 a.m. the same morning witness went to the American unit stationed at the Aintree Racecourse and after some investigation, was accompanied by some American officers to the sleeping quarters where accused was aroused. Accused at that time had on a pair of white trunks, bloodstained in front and when he dressed he put on a white vest also bloodstained at the bottom of the front (R75). In the presence of Captain Raymond R. Cook, Replacement Company "B" Separate and Lieutenant Rouse, at 4*40 a.m, 3 August 1943 (R80) and after Captain Cook and witness had thoroughly warned accused of his rights (R79), witness informed accused that a woman had been criminally assaulted in Aintree "last night" and there were reasons to believe that accused was the assailant. Accused replied: "I with a girl. I did have intercourse with her but she did not object", and said he was willing to tell what took place.
- 5 -
CONF’jENTtftl
CONFIDENTIAL
Accused then dictated a statement to witness who took it down in writing. When completed accused read and signed it. Witness had accused examined in the dispensary at the camp by Dr. Kiley, the police surgeon in the presence of Lieutenant Lampka, the medical officer and of witness.
Accused turned his clothing over to witness who described and identified the clothing as Pros.Ex,,,S,, to "V" inclusive and a towel which witness had found hanging over accused's bed as Pros.Ex."W". On accused's bunk was a ladies' handbag which witness took. Later Annie identified it as belonging to her and as having been in her possession when she was with accused. Jackson identified Pros.Ex."I" as this handbag (R8l). The statement of accused as written by witness and signed by accused in the presence of Captain Cook and Lieutenant Rouse (R83) was then, with consent of defense, read into the record of trial. In pertinent part it is as followst
"Kenneth Melton Waite sayst 'I have been cautioned that I am not obliged to say anything unless I wish to do so, but what I do say will be taken down in writing and may be given in evidence. To show that I understand I now sign my name *. He signed that 'Kenneth M. Waite.'
'On Monday evening'I met a girl in a publichouse whom I have met previously. I had had a few drinks, but I was sober. I went down the road with her as far as the Storage Park. I got some cigarettes from the guard at the main entrance and I had some conversation with the guard at the Storage Park. The girl was there at the time. We then went up the little road under the railway and into the field. Another girl who was with her and another boy left us before we got to the Storage Park.
When the girl and myself got to the field we got down in the grass and had intercourse.
We stayed there possibly 20 minutes. She had intercourse with me willingly. There was no force used at all. We left the field together, but she left me before she got to the tunnel, practically at the place where we had intercourse. She walked fast towards the roadway and left her bag with me. I thought she was looking for her girl friend.
I did not see her again'f"
Jackson further testified: "He signed it there 'Kenneth M. Waite', and afterwards made an addition to the statement. He said 'I think it was about 10:30 or a quarter to
■ »
- 6 -
f !_
/
CONFIDENTIAL
(385)
11	when we got to the field, and about a quarter past 13 when we left*. He signed ray book again there.
,	I	took	that	statement	at	five minutes
past 5 a.m." (R83),
Captain Raymond R. Cook was aroused about 300 a.m. in the morning of 3 August 1943 by Lieutenant Rouse and with Inspector Jackson, called in and interviewed the men on guard at the main gate and also at the so-called storage park (R77). Due to the information received from the guards, accused was interviewed. Accused was asked to account for his activities during the night (R78) and warned as to his rights (R79)*
4* The testimony for the defense was substantially as follows:
Accused after his rights had been explained to him by the law member, was sworn and testified (R97). He told in detail the happenings of the nights of 23 July and of 2 August 1943 (R93). His story does not materially vary from that of Annie Parry up to the time they sat down in the grass slightly to the right of the lane leading from Ormskirk Road at a point a short distance through the railroad underpass. Upon further interrogation he testified as follows:
"A. ■****■*. iVe sat dorm by the side of the road and were there for some time.
Q. LT. BOURLAND: Let me interrupt you here and ask you to indicate on prosecution*s Exhibit *A* whereabouts this spot was where you sat.
A. It was through the underpass, slightly through the underpass.
Q. Indicating to you this lane running alongside of the U.S. Storage Area as marked on the Exhibit, under these two symbols indicating railroad bridges, there is a small mark, X. Is that the spot to which you refer?
A. That is approximately it, sirj slightly through, and to the right of the road.
Q. Carry on,
A. We were there for some time talking, and there is where we had intercourse. I would not say for certain exactly how long we were there, but I judge it to be the better part of an hour. I had no watch.
After we were through Miss Parry said she had to relieve herself.
Q. Uill you explain, please, what you did while you were there?
- 7 -
CONnncNTiAL
(386)
OONFWNTIM.
A. As I said before, we sat down and began talking. I was necking the girl, loving her up, and there we did have intercourse.
She did not object, she did not fight and she did not scream, as she says. I should say we were there for the better part of an hour, and she gets up with the excuse that she was going to relieve herself, walks towards the underpass, and it seemed I could hear her steps. It seemed as if she stopped. I was arranging my clothes.
I did not hear her move on, and when she was gone some few minutes I started in the direction of the underpass. Seeing that she was not there I continued on to the main road. Not seeing her anywhere on the road, I had left my cap, and I started back through the underpass to the right of the road, where we were. I had a few matches in my pocket which I had borrowed from the guard. These I struck trying to find my cap. I did not find my cap, but I did pick her purse up. I took the purse and continued to the main road, walked up the main road, using the road, not the sidewalk, turned in at the main gate and went to my billet. There I was awakened early in the morning by my Captain, Captain Cook.1' (R99-100).
Accused said the statement given to Inspector Jackson by him and read in court was true (RlOO) and insisted that he asked Annie for intercourse and she said she was willing (R103).
Private Marie Stopp, Replacement Company ,rB" Depot, was on duty from 8:00 to 12:00 in the evening of 2 August as guard of No. 2 Post at the U.S. Storage Area some half-mile from the main camp, Depot 0-629 (R86). About quarter to eleven accused came in the guard's gate and asked "could he go and take a leak, and so he did **** and **** went back out." A girl was standing outside the post and she and accused "started down that little road" running along the U.S. Storage Area towards the two railroad bridges (R87).
Zilpah Winder, Auxiliary Police Woman, Aintree, was present in the police station when an R.A.F. Corporal brought Annie in about 1:40 in the morning of 3 August 1943 (R91). Annie smelled very strongly of drink when she came in the station at first. "She was very hysterical all the time" (R92), "but I suppose she was sober" (R93)«
- 8 -
0.0 N
r, t T ■ V ,
CONFIDENTIAL
(387)
Private Emery J. Richards, Replacement Company B (Sep) was with accused at both the Sefton Arms and Queens Arms public houses on evening of 23 July 194-3 and met Annie and Grace. The four left the Queens Arms. Accused was with Annie and witness was with Grace. On the evening of 2 August accused and witness met the two girls again at the Queens Arms and drank beer with them. Thereafter witness saw accused and Annie walking towards camp (R95),
5,	Upon rebuttal, the prosecution's witnesses testified as follows:
Private Eerie Stopp was recalled and repudiated his prior testimony that it was accused who came to the guard gate and requested entrance in order to urinate. He could not identify the soldier who thus presented himself.
Corporal Hamilton T. Moody, Company B (Sep), saw accused on the night of 2 August 194-3 at 10:00 p.m. when the "pubs" closed at Aintree, Witness was with a girl named Grace who walked with him from the "pub" down the street to the U.S. Storage Area. Witness went into the area to urinate and then with Grace went down the lane adjacent to the area and remained about 20 minutes. Upon returning to the street he saw accused with a girl, whose name he did not. know (R116-118).
Annie Parry recalled, stated that she and accused went dovm the lane next to the U.S. Storage Area but once. She remained in the'lane about an hour and it was then she came out of the lane running away from accused.
Grace Donoghue also recalled, stated that on night of 2 August she remained outside of the U.S. Storage Area while an American soldier went inside. Thereafter they went down the lane.
Police Inspector Jackson also testified that actual measurements made by him showed that	it is 116 yards from Ormskirk Road to	the place of
the alleged crime. It	is 71 yards from Ormskirk Road	to	the	far side of
the first bridge and 45 yards from there to the actual locus. The road has a bend and it is slightly less distance in a straight line (R123-124.).
6.	Certain errors and irregularities in the admission and exclusion
of evidence have been noted in the review of the staff judge advocate. Inasmuch as the substantial rights of accused were not affected thereby there is no necessity for further comment. Other irregularities of a similar nature, not noted by the staff judge advocate,	in	the	opinion of
the Board of Review are	non-prejudicial to accused and	do	not	require
discussion*
7.	Rape is the unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman by force and without her consent (ivCLJ., 1928, par.14.8b, p.165). The act of intercourse is admitted by accused. The only question to be determined herein was
- 9 -
f’ON":DENTlAL
X vJ
CONFIDENTIAL
whether or not the intercourse was by consent - whether accused was telling the truth or whether Annie Parry should be believed. The testimony indicates Annie was with accused at the scene of the alleged crime approximately an hour; that she fled therefrom in haste, leaving her pocket book, and promptly made complaint to the first party she met. That she was hysterical, crying, in a disheveled condition, with torn and bloody clothes appears beyond question. Medical examination of her person proved beyond doubt that her genital organs had been subjected to violence. The court was the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses and of the weight and sufficiency of the evidence. It was its duty to resolve the conflicts in evidence. There was substantial, competent evidence, excluding accused’s statement, to support the court’s findings and under such circumstances the findings of the court will not be disturbed by the Board of Review (CM ETO A92, Lewis: CM ETO 611, Porter: CM ETO 77A, Cooper).
8,	Attached to the record is a letter dated 28 August 19A3 signed by Lieutenant Colonel Leonard E. Y/ebster, as President of the court recommending "on behalf of all the members of the General Courts-Martial in this trial," clemency "because of the encouragement given by the complaining witness over a period of weeks". Also attached are additional letters and
a statement of an interview between accused and Annie Parry. These indicate efforts on accused's part to enlist the aid of Annie and her friends in his behalf, in which accused offered marriage. They also indicate that Annie has been troubled by the life sentence received by accused but that she does not care for him, will not marry him, and does not want to see him again or have anything more to do with him.
9.	The accused is 25 years of age. He enlisted 7 May 1938 for three years service which period of service is governed by the Service Extension Act of 19Al. He had no prior service.
10.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offense*. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Eoard of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as approved. Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is authorized for the crime of rape by 35 Stat. 11A3, 18 U.S.C. A57; 35 Stat. 1152, 18 U.S.C. 567; A’V A2; Y,rar Department letter AG 253 (2-6-Al) E, 26 February 19Al. Accused's return to the United States is authorized (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 19A2 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, A December 1942).
Advocate
Advocate.
- 10 -
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind,
2 6 OCT 1943
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.	TO:	Commanding
Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515, U.S, Army,
1. In the case of Private KENNETH M. YJAITE (6834-779), Replacement Company "B" Separate, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5&k, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence,
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 832, Por convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order (ETO 832),
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
*
fc
J
#(391)
