#(317)
Branch Office of The Judge‘Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW.
ETO 774.
UNITED STATES	)
)
v.	)
)
Private WILLIAM (MI) COOPER,	)
JR., (33523967), Detachment	“A",	)
Company nDn, 383rd Engineer	)
Battalion (Separate).	)
)
)
1 8 SEP 1943
SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Tidworth, Hampshire, England,
30 August 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. Federal Reformatory.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review,
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private William (NMl)
Cooper Junior, Detachment A, Company D 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate) did, at Penwood Road, Highclere, Hampshire England, on or about 24 July 1943, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Dora Amy Black.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for the term of his natural life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but reduced the period of confinement to 10 years, designated the Federal Reformatory at Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50^.
(318)
COiiFIDENTIM.
3.	The uncontradicted evidence for the prosecution shows that accused together with Privates George Smith and Oumis Randolph of the 383rd Engineers, left their camp together on the night of 24 July 1943# and visited a couple of "pubs" (R7) where they drank a considerable quantity of beer (R9). They then went down the road to a bridge, from where they noticed a girl on the road about a quarter of a mile ahead. Accused said he was going to catch up with her. Smith and Randolph stopped till they saw accused catch up with the girl (Rl#7) when they returned to a "pub” and waited (Rl) till accused returned about 30 to 35 minutes later (R2,7). Randolph says the girl wa3 too far away for him to recognize her (Rl) and he did not hear accused say anything concerning the girl on his return (R2). Smith watched until he saw accused and this girl go over a hill (R7).	Accused had the	girl by the	arm	and she
just swung off to the side.of the road from him.	Smith did	not	know
whether she was trying to get away from accused, as he was some 50 or 55 yards away from the girl and accused at that time (R9). From here on the testimony varies in some respects. Mrs. Dora A. Black, the alleged victim, states that she "was on our side of the road on top of this hill; I was dragged across the road to	the side of the	grass verge	and	then
carried into the bushes" (R6).	Smith testified	that about five	minutes
(R9) after they went over the hill, he heard a noise (R7); "I don't know if it was a hollering or what — it was just over the hill" (R8). "It didn't last no time" (R9). Smith also states that when accused returned he Baid "he got him some, but he said — he mentioned ten shillings. I don't know what he meant, but he did mention ten shillings" (R8,10),
This was around ten o'clock, but "it wasn't all dark" and all he could see was a man and a girl (R9).
Mrs, Black* as a witness for the prosecution, testified in substance that on the evening of 24 July 1943 she returned from Newbury on a bus going to Hollington Corner about ten o'clock; from there she had about a mile to walk (R2).
"I had to pass down one main road, and along a small lane, over a bridge, and over - just before I got to where I had to cross over the cross-roads on the Andover road, there were two colored boys to the left of me with two girls, and Private Cooper was going the other way by himself on the right. I crossed the -over the road and as I was — it is a fairly steep hill - as I got going up the hill I heard footsteps behind me. I never took much notice because I thought it was probably these two colored men with these girls. Then I heard somebody panting for breath because he had been running up the hill, and it was this man. **** He said 'goodnight' to me and
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(319)
tv.
r> r »i t ' V. J ’i
TIAL
I didn’t answer. He said ’goodnight’ twice, but I didn't want to speak to him so I thought probably if I answered him the third time, perhaps he would go away, because I didn't want to speak to him. He said 'Why won't you speak to me - all the other girls around here do'. I said 'I'm not in the habit of speaking to strangers'. He then caught hold of my wrists with one hand. I started to scream but nobody heard me. He then put a handkerchief in my mouth. I tried to struggle but I couldn't.
And then he dragged me into the bushes, still catching hold of my wrists, both my wrists in one of his hands. He got me in the bushes and he threw me on the ground. Took my shoes off and my stockings. I tried to scream again but no-one heard me. He threw me on the ground and put his knee on my chest, or rather on my stomach.
He said 'if you don't let me get what I want I'll strangle you.' He then pulled out a rubber Good, pulled my knickers down, then I fainted. When I came round he was still there. The handkerchief was out of my mouth but I felt too weak to cry for help. I then said 'Will you please let me go now?' He said 'I'll go out into the road to see if there is anybody coming'. ****
While he was gone into the road I tried to crawl back through the bushes to get to a path which leads to a Lodge, but it was too overgrown and I couldn't get through, so I just stood there and waited. Then he came back, said there was no-one coming, and he caught hold of my hand and pulled me into the road. I had no shoes or stockings on. I said 'What about my stockings and my shoes and my bags?' He went and got them.
He caught hold of my wrists again and asked me if I would see him next week at the dance. I said 'No, I don't go to dances'. He then said 'If you will keep quiet about this I’ll give you a pound-note.* *** He put the LI. note in to my hand, but I let it fall to the ground and said I didn't want his money." (R3).
Witness denied encouraging accused in any way to accompany her home (R3). While in the undergrowth, accused exposed his penis. Immediately after she revived,accused said "Why didn't you tell me you were unwell".
Witness testified she was unwell at the time. After she let the note fall to the ground, accused ran away. She felt so bad she walked slowly home without meeting anyone. After sitting in a chair for a while she
non
KTIAL
3
(320)
L:l 111.
JiTIM.
went to bed and did not get up till about one (the next day) o’clock, at which time she told the next door neighbor what had happened (R4-).
On cross-examination, defense counsel produced a statement given by Mrs. Black to the Andover police varying in some minor details from her testimony given in court, which statement was admitted in evidence as Defense Exhibit "A".
First Lieutenant Oliver G. Hesselgren, Jr., investigating officer in this case, testified that on 9 August 1943, after his rights to make a statement or to remain silent had been fully explained to him, accused made a sworn statement (Rll), which was admitted in evidence as Prosecution's Exhibit "A". It reads as follows:
Sworn Statement
9 August 194-3 I, Pvt. William (Ml) Cooper, Jr.,
33523967,' Det. A, Co. D, 383rd Engr. Bn. (Sep)., having been warned of my rights under the 24-th A.W. do of my own free will, and without force,
.threats, or. promises of immunity or leniency, choose to make a sworn statement as follows*
I left camp, about 1800 hrs. with George Smith and Randolph, and we went to the pub. We stated there about an hour. We left there and went back towards camp and stood there about 10 minutes. Then George Smith mentioned, "Let’s go down the road towards Newbury and get some girls". After we got down the road to the main road to Newbury (Newbury-Andover road) there were about three couples standing on the road down there.- We had been there about half an hour, and a girl came from towards Newbury on a bicycle. Then Randolph say, "There go one now.
I am going to see if I can get her," He went after her and during the time he was down the road, I walked back towards Newbury. Two girls and two soldiers came out from the woods. Smith said, "There's two girls now. Let's try them."
One of the girls left and went up the hill. The other went back towards Newbury. I told George Smith, "I'm going to try this one going up the hill," Going up the hill he told me, "Go ahead, see can you get her." I went slowly up to her.
I said "Hello", and she stopped about half the way up the hill. I talked to her about the dance for a while, and then I asked her, "Did you know anything." She said, "What about?"
I asked her how much she wanted for it. She said one pound. She asked me for a cigarette,
I gave it to her. Then I say, "You ready to go,"
- 4- -
GONjHDf-HTIAL
(321)
She said, "Yes." At that time Smith was standing close enough to see me walking into the woods. After we got into the woods, she lay down. I pulled her dress up. She didn't have on any underclothing. Then I put ray rubber on. Then I went with her. Then, after I got through, I took ,my handkerchief and wiped* myself off, and she asked me when was I going to meet her again. Then she asked me for the money, and I told her I didn’t have but ten shillings; I gave her the ten shillings, and we walked out back into the road, and I kissed her. Again she asked me when she was going to see me again.
I told her Sunday. She said she couldn’t see me Sunday, but she would see me Tuesday. Then I kissed her and told her goodnight. She asked me ’’Had anyone followed me?" I told her, "No.” Then I went on back down and met George. He asked me "Did I get it?" I told him, "Yeah." Then George Smith stated, "I told you I would bring you to the right place where you could get it." Then I told him I had a date with her Tues. night, and we went back to the camp together. That is all that v	happened.
She was not menstruating when I was- with her. I went back on Tuesday but did not meet her. I asked George Smith to come with me, but he said "No", that he didn't feel good.
I stayed about an hour but she did not show up. I didn't see anyone but a soldier and- a girl going up the road. I went back to camp and I told George I didn't see the girl.
She did not scream at any time on Sat. night, and I did not put a handkerchief in her mouth. After I finished with the handkerchief I gave it to her and asked her if she wanted to wipe. She said, "No", and offered- it back to me. I said I didn't want it, so she threw it on the ground. That Saturday night I had on George Smith's pants.
(Signed) William Cooper, Jr.
Sworn and subscribed to before me this 9th day of August, 1913.	C.E.,
0. G. Hesselgren, 1st Lt.,/Investigating Officer." (R13,U).
Objection was made to the admission of the statement'-in evidence on the claim that the rights of accused were not fully and properly first
- 5 -
(322)
explained to hid (R.ll) and the defense counsel was permitted to read to the court a "deposition" in -support of the objection which "deposition" the court later in closed session rejected as improperly presented (R12).
The defense re-called Private George Smith as a defense witness and he testified that on 28 July he was taken by a "man"xkh in a jeep for a ride and he was informed "that a girl was raped and said Cooper said I done it and I said no, I didn’t have anything to do with that." (R15). Cooper was not present at the time.
Accused was sworn as a witness only in regard to his statement and he denied that at the time the Lieutenant questioned him on 9 August 194-3 that the 24-th Article of War v/as explained to him (R15), that he was sworn or told he needn’t make a statement if he did not want to. He admitted he voluntarily made and signed the statement and explained -"he came to me and asked me if' I wanted to make a sworn or unsworn statement. I have been questioned before by the F.B.I. and I gave him a statement." On questioning by the court, accused said the Lieutenant kept saying he (accused) was charged with rape and Smith and Randolph were framing him. Their statements were read to him "so I told him I didn’t want to make no statement and said rather than keep them waiting (presumably the Lieutenant) I would do so and make him a statement and sign my name and that was all." The court in closed session decided that the statement (Prosecution’s Exhibit "A") made by the accused to Lieutenant Hesselgren wduld remain in evidence with such weight as the court may care to give it' (-R17). A stipulation between accused, defense counsel and the trial judge advocate was read into the record by the defense counsel to the effect that, if present as a witness, Second Lieutenant William 0. hurray would say that in his contact as an officer with accused, he had found accused to be a hard, faithful and conscientious worker who caused no trouble of any sort.
4-. During his closing argument, defense counsel introduced a letter "which was accepted as Defense Exhibit ’B’". The copy attached to the record is unsigned but it is apparently a comment on certain conditions by parties outside and foreign to the record and was therefore immaterial, irrelevant and inadmissible as evidence. However, it was -presented by defense counsel and could therefore be considered in no way to affect any substantial rights of accused. In the opinion of the Board of Review, Prosecution's Exhibit "A" was properly admitted in evidence.
numerous other errors and irregularities have been' noted by the staff judge advocate and will not therefore be again commented upon inasmuch as they do not affect the -substantial rights of accused.
5.	Rape is the unlawful carnal knowledge.of a woman by force and without her consent (ivlGIu., 1928, par.14.8b, p.165). The act of intercourse is admitted by accused. Facts and circumstances shown by other evidence also establish thau fact. The only question to be determined was whether or not the intercourse v/as by consent - whether accused v/as telling the truth
- 6 -
(323)
or whether Mrs. Black and the other witnesses should be believed. The court was the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses and the weight and sufficiency of the evidence. It was its duty to resolve conflicts in evidence. There was substantial, competent evidence excluding accused’s statement, to support the court's findings, and under such circumstances the findings of the court will not be disturbed by the Board of Review (CM ETO 492, Lewis; CM ETO 106, Orbon).
6.	Accused is 21 years of age. He was inducted 28 January 1943, for a period governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941.
7.	»The approved sentence of accused includes confinement for ten years. Confinement in a penitentiary for the crime of rape is authorized by 35 Stat. 1143, 18 U.S.C. 457; 35 Stat. 1152, IS U.S.C. 567. M 42.
By War Department letter, A.G. 253, (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941, as amended by War Department letter A.G. 253, (6-13-41), prisoners under 31 years of age and with sentences of not more than 10 years will be confined in a Federal Correctional Institution or Reformatory, Therefore, confinement in the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, is proper. Accused's return to the United States is authorized (GO #37, ETOUSA,
9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942).
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. Wo errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
- 7 -
V. ..
(324)
j >.■ 1» t *. \ L.
1st Ind.
18 SEP 1943
HD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.
Officer, Southern Base Secticta, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 519*
TO* Commanding
1. In the case of Private WILLIAil (Ml) COOPER, JR., (33523967), Detachment A, Company D, 383rd Engineer Battalion, (Separate), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record, of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. You now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement* The fiJ^^flEBB^f the record in this office is ETO 774* For convenience
that number in brackets at the end ofrdSB&nbrder*
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(325)
