#(217)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Boafd of Review.
ETO 705.
UNITED STATES )
)
Private ARTHUR 0. MALONE	)
(38225397), Headquarters	)
and Service Company, 843rd	)
Engineer Aviation Battalion.	}
- 8 SEP 1943
EASTERN RASE SECTION, SERVICES OF STJPPLI, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by-G.C.M., convened at Ipswich, Suffolk, England, 27 July 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures -and confinement at hard labor for three years. Confinement* Disciplinary Training Center No. 1, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1,	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support*the findings. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said office.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification* In that Private Arthur 0. Malone,
Headquarters and Service Company, 843rd Engineer Aviation Battalion, did, at Bock Essex, England, on or about 29 June 194-3, commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection with a cow, the same being a beast*
Accused pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for three years. The
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier*s release from confinement and designated the Disciplinary Training Center No.l, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England as the place of confinement. The proceedings were published in General Court-Martial Orders No.28, Headquarters, Eastern Base Section, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations, APO 517, 9 August 194-3•
3.	The prosecution's evidence shows that Stanley Brooks Perry, a British civilian resides on a small farm at Rocking, Braintree, Essex, where he had four cows which on the evening of 28 June 194-3 were in a meadow adjoining the house (R6). When about to retire that night he looked-from his window across the yard and saw someone chasing a cow. He telephoned for the police and then watched the cow being chased intermittently until the police arrived. The car lights, showing on the yard, disclosed a "man mounted on the cow” in position to have sexual relations with it. The man immediately ran, was pursued and caught by the farmer and police officers when he was found to have nothing on but a vest (R7) and to be carrying his shoes and clothes in his hands (RIO). The man admitted he was the man that was with the cow (R7) and he was identified as the accused (R9). Accused had been drinking but was not drunk. The front of his vest was stained. His legs were in a dirty condition (RIO). The whole hind quarters of the cow were imprinted on his thighs and his penis was erect and s tained with cow manure as were his hands (R10,ll). Accused said he had gone into the yard to relieve himself. He was made to dress, taken to the police station and handed over to the Provost Marshal (RIO). The cap of accused was later found near the cow yard (Rll).
For the defense, by stipulation, a statement of Colonel R. E. Chambers, Medical Corps, was read to the court, admitted in evidence as defense Exhibit 1 and attached to the record. It shows that accused was from a Louisiana farm family, one of ten children. He has had but a year of schooling and is unable to read or write more than his name. His present mental age is approximately 9 years but he is mentally responsible for his actions, able to conduct his defense and- to determine between right and wrong. Also admitted by stipulation between the parties was the testimony of Captain Boleman, Medical Corps, to the effect that he had examined accused at 0115 hours, 29 June 194-3 and found him intoxicated to a degree that would greatly impair his normal mental processes (R13).
■„ 4.. "Sodomy consists of sexual connection with any brute animal **-*".
To establish the offense, actual penetration must be proved (MCM., 1928, par.14.9k, p.l7T).
There is no direct evidence herein of penetration. The farmer "thinks" accused was having sexual relations with the cow (R7) "as far as I could see". He "couldn’t conceive anyone chasing the cow in the yard for any other purpose" and "could swear" that accused had sexual intercourse with the cow (R9). The police officer drove his car into the yard and the headlights of the car revealed a cow and a man at the far end and close
- 2 «
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(219)
against the shed or wire fence. When the lights shone on him, the man went away from the rear of the cow and scrambled over a gate into the field (RIO). > In the opinion of the police officer accused "was definitely attempting to have intercourse with the cow". Accused was nearly nude, his penis was stained with cow manure and "the whole of the hind quarters was imprinted on his thighs and not extending either wav"(Underscoring supplied)
"Where evidence is of sufficient probative force, a crime may be established by circumstantial evidence, provided that there is positive proof of the facts from which the inference of guilt is to be drawn and that that inference is the only one which can reasonably be drawn from those facts," (People v. Razezicz, 99 N.E. 557,
564).
The cow was observed for an appreciable length of time prior to the arrival of the police during which period it was being chased and at "intermittent times it was stopped; the police came and as the lights came on the yard, we saw a man mounted on the cow" (Underscoring supplied). When almost immediately thereafter accused was apprehended, his penis was erect and stained with manure and -his body marked with filth,
"In a criminal prosecution, where the evidence is purely circumstantial, the proof must exclude every reasonable hypothesis except accused’s guilt," (Sherman v. U.S., 268 Fed, 516),
But upon what other reasonable hypothesis can the circumstances described and the condition in which accused was found, be explained, than that he was attempting to of was having carnal intercourse with the cow? We think the trial court may well have believed from the facts shown that accused had succeeded in his attempts,
"Though there is no direct proof of penetration in a sodomy case, such penetration may be inferred from the facts shown. The offense of sodomy, including penetration, requires strict proof, but circumstantial evidence may be sufficient." (CM 191413 (1930) 1912-1940, Dig,
Ops,JAG,, par.451(65), p.333)).
"Penetration may be established by circumstantial evidence, at least where positive proof is unavailable, ****." (58 C.J., sec,17, p.794) •
Whether or not penetration occurred was a fact to be determined by the court. It was wholly within its province to sift and weigh the evidence, circumstantial and otherwise with all the legitimate presumptions and
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
inferences arising therefrom. There was substantial, competent evidence to sustain the court's finding that accused committed the crime charged and under such circumstances the findings of. the court will not be disturbed by the Board of Review (CM ETO 4-92, Lewis: CM ETO 503, Richmond).
"Crime **** when committed by an individual who has- previously placed^ himself under the influence of an intoxicant, is committed by one who is * wrong ab initio: hence the established general principle of law that voluntary drunkenness furnishes per se no excuse or- palliation for criminal acts committed during its continuance, and no immunity from the penal consequences of such acts, ****, Yftiere, to constitute the legal crime there is required no peculiar intent- no wrongful intent other than that inferable from the act itself **** evidence that the offender was intoxicated would, strictly, not be admissible in evidence." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents,
1920 Reprint, p.293)•
Intoxication can be no defense to the crime of sodomy,
5.	Accused is 22 years and 3 months old. He was inducted under the Selective Service Extension Act of 1941, on 14 September 1942, for the duration and six months,
6.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
- 4 -
GGiinDENTlAL
#(221)
