#(189)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 611.
UNITED STATES	)
)
v»	)
)
Private ISIAH (NT.ll) PORTER	)
(34122893), 434th Engineer	Company	)
(Dump Truck).	)
)
)
n it 'I 10 ■’ o
tc Jui. lino
SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Tidworth, Wiltshire, England,
30 June 1913. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for ten years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio,
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1* The record of trial in the case of the soldier above named has been examined by the Board of Review.
2. The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Viblation	of	the	92nd	Article	of	War.
Specification:	In that Private Isiah Porter,
434-th Engineer Company (Dump Truck), did, at Whitchurch, Hampshire, England, on or about 5 June 1943, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Beatrice Annie Ivebby.
He pleaded not guilty to, and* was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for the term of his natural life.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence but reduced the period of confinement to 10 years; designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50%,
6j_l
241102
CONFIDENTIAL
(190)
3* The accused (colored) was a member of 434th Engineer Company (Dump Truck) (R 31) which was stationed on 5 June 19-43 at or near Kingsclere, Hampshire, England (Ex.'S). ' Beatrice Annie Kebby is a British civilian, female and unmarried, aged 23 years, who on and prior to said date resided at #21 Council House, Newbury Road, V/hitchurch, Hants, England (R 1,5,12). On the evening of said date a public dance was held at the Church Hall in Whitchurch, which was attended by British civilian^, both male and female and also by colored soldiers of the United States Army (R 2,34-)* The Church Hall is situate about mile from Hiss Kebby’s home (R 2). Normally it would require 10 to 15 minutes to walk between the two places (R 10).
4.	Hiss Kebby, appearing’as a witness for the prosecution, testified:	that	on	4	June 1943, between the hours of 7:30 P.M. and
11:00 P.M., she, in company with Hiss Annie Page, also a British civilian, attended the dance. A Mrs. Hayward "introduced her to two colored soldiers designated as "Chico" and "Rock" who were present in the dance hall (R l). She danced several times with ""Rock". During the evening she and "Rock" went to a nearby public house, the "Bell", where She drank three glasses of cider (R 2,37). She consumed no intoxicating liquor (R 2). Returning to the dance hall at about 9:15 P.M., she had a few more dances‘with "Rock" and later danced with a colored soldier named "Vernon". At the conclusion of the dance, Misses Kebby and Page and Mrs. Hayward -left the hall together. They met "Rock", "Chico" and an unnamed colored soldier on the outside.
"Root" asked Hiss Kebby: "Can I take you home?" She said "No" and "Rock" accepted her declination. After arranging to meet Miss Page the next day. Miss Kebby walked up Newbury Street and passed the "White Hart" public house. As she passed the "Bricklayers Arms" public house she heard someone approaching from her'rear. It was a colored American soldier, who overtaking her asked if he could escort her home. She replied "No". He continued to follow her and when they were opposite the "lodge" he caught hold of her shoulder and asked if he could get under, her umbrella. ’ When they reached a point opposite "Dances corhOr", he forced her across the road. The accused, sitting in the count room, was identified by Miss.Kebby ds the colored soldier who thus molested her (R 2,7,12,42).
The accused then pulled Miss Kebby up a lane to a gate; knocked her backwards to the ground, and commenced to remove her clothes. . He pulled her knickers down and placed his hand on,her private parts. She screamed several times but no help came.	Accused put his hand over her
mouth and attempted to muffle her cries.	She attempted to get away
and struggled with him for a long time. He put his shoulder over her mouth. Miss KObby found her umbrella and struck accused with it. He threw it from her. She bit him on the lip. He knocked her about in the nettles. She freed herself and feached^he gate, but accused grabbed her again and said "I’m not going to let you go until I had F-U-C-K". They continued struggling, and during such action accused placed his hand on her private parts. The girl protested, but accused held her hands above her head. He flung her on to the bank and she rolled down on to the gravel by the side of the road. Sitting astride ’her, he held-her prostrate. He struck her head on the ground and again
- 2 -
w fr I r j r m t i £i i
(191)
announced his intention to have intercourse with her. She could see white down his legs which looked like his underpants. The victim must have become unconscious. She did not know whether accused had sexual relations with her or not. She had no recollection of further events until accused pulled her to her feet. He then held her handbag and umbrella, which he returned to her. The girl said "look what you have done to me", because her clothing was wet and she was shivering. He struck matches for the purpose of finding his cap. She looked and found her shoes. Accused produced his handkerchief and said the girl had bitten him. He asked where a telephone was located and said he had to get back to Kingsclere. He went down the lane and.Miss Kebby started for home arriving at about 2:30 A.III. on 5 June 1943 (R 4,5,42-48). She went immediately to her mother and informed her: "A black man knocked me down" (R 9).
Miss Kebby had never seen accused previously to the time he accosted her about 11:45 P.M. on 4 June 1943 (R 10).
4.	The prosecution corroborated the narrative of Miss Kebby by the following testimony and evidence:
(a)	Beatrice Nellie Kebby. 21 Council.House, Whitchurch, the mother of the victim, testified that her daughter left home about 7:30 P.M. on 4 June 1943, dressed in clean clothing, but returned about 2:45 A.M.
5 June 1943 with her clothing torn and blood-stained. The girl's back was covered with scratches and bruises; her head and hair were full of dirt; there were bumps on her head; her ankles were cut. She was distressed and crying and said: "I have been knocked down by a colored man". Her private parts had been "damaged". Immediately prior to 6:00 A.M. Mrs. Kebby reported the affair to the authorities and her daughter was examined by a doctor about 2 or 3 o'clock of the afternoon of the same day (R 11-14).
(b)	Stephen James Hollett. Police Sergeant #10, the Hampshire Joint Police Force, stationed at Whitchurch, on 5 June 1943 made an examination of a lane known as "Dances Lane" leading from Newbury Road in Whitchurch. The surface of the lane was composed of chalky mud and broken flint. On each side of the lane surface there was a bank covered with a growth of grass and nettles. For an area extending over 6 yards the lane surface was churned out and the grass and nettles on the b^nks -particularly the left bank - going away from Newbury Road - were freshly trodden down. Witness saw accused at about 7:00 P.M. on 5 June 1943 and there was a faint, slight mark on his lip (R 15^16).
(c)	James Ewing. Medical Practitioner, Whitchurch, made an examination of Beatrice Annie Kebby between 4 and 5:00 P.M. 5 June 1943. She seemed dazed and partly stupified. She had abrasions on her shoulders between the shoulders and on her arms, legs and hands, which had been received within 48 hours previous. There were dried blood-stains on
her lower abdomen, blood matted into the pubic hairs and on both sides
Gil
241102
CONFIDENTIAL
of the vagina. Upon opening the vulva there was a small hemorrhage of bright blood. The patient complained^ of extreme tenderness and further internal examination was not attempted. He made another examination on 7 June 1943 when another slight slight vaginal hemorrhage occurred. He sent her to the hospital for an examination under anesthesia. The hemorrhages were not the result of menstruation^ Later on 28 June 194-3 he made a third examination of Kiss Kebby. The various abrasions had cleared up, except on her left hand there were three deep linear scars (R 19-23).
(d)	Jack Rubin. Surgeon, Royal Hampshire County Hospital, Winchester,. examined Miss Kebby in the hospital on the evening of 7 June 194-3 and found her rational, but a little bit nervous. She had abrasions and scratches on both hands, knees and ankles, over the right buttock, and on the upper and inner aspects of her thighs. The same evening she was placed tinder an anesthesia and the witness made a vaginal examination. She had a small hymeneal tear anteriorly and to the right. Penetration of a male penis into the vagina could have caused the hymeneal tear and the aperture was large enough to admit a penis. There was a profuse leucorrhoea, which could have been caused by inflammation superinduced by infection and irritation. The witness took from Miss Kebby the following specimens: (l) a specimen of pubic hair; (2) a specimen .and slides of the vaginal discharge; (3) 4- ccs. of blood for serum grouping, and a suspension of red blood cells in saline. The specimens were delivered to Detective Inspector Old of Whitchurch police on the morning of 8 June 194-3 ‘ (R 23-29)
(e)	Victim's Clothing, consisting of vest (Ex.A): shoes (Ex.B)j skirt (Ex.C); blouse (Ex.D); coat (Ex.E); petticoat (Ex.F) and knickers (Ex.M) was identified and admitted in evidence (R 2,3,29) These had been previously submitted by Detective Inspector Old to the laboratory of Metropolitan Police, Hendon, The Hyde, N.W.9, for examination. The report of the technician, James Davidson, admitted in evidence by stipulation
(R 17-18), showed that there was blood-staining on the blouse, petticoat, vest, knickers and coat, seminal fluid on the petticoat, vest and knickers; and mud-staining on all of the articles of clothing.
(f)	Accused's Clothing, consisting of U.S. Army cap (Ex.N)j Army tunic (Ex.O); Army trousers (Ex.P); short pants (Ex.Q); and Khaki shirt (Ex.R) was .identified and admitted in evidence (R 17,29) and it was stipulated that same was in the same condition as when taken from accused's barrack bag on 5 June 1943. These articles of clothing had also been submitted by Detective Inspector Old to the same laboratory of Metropolitan Police, for examination. The report of the technician,. James Darvidson( being the same report as that above).showed that there was blood-staining on the lower part of the lower hem of the shirt, oti the inner aspect of both legs near the fork, on the inner surface of the right fly and on the lining of the left side of the trousers, and on the front of the short pants in vicinity of the fly and down the left leg thereof; mud-staining
CON
CONFIDENTIAL
(193)
on the shirt, tunic, trousers and cap and seminal-staining on the left front near the lower hem of the shirt, and on the front of the left leg of the short pants,
(g)	Blood analysis and comparisons. The report of the-laboratory technician, (reference, supra) shows that Detective Inspector Old delivered to him the two samples Of Miss Kebby's blood taken by the witness, Rubin (d, supra) and upon being tested her blood was classified as belonging to Group A, The blood oh accused's shirt, trousers and short pants also classified as Group A.
(h)	Soil Gam-pies. The report of the laboratory technician (reference, supra) recites that Detective Inspector Old delivered samples of soil taken from the scene of the crime to the technician for analysis and that comparison with mud taken from Miss Kebby's coat and accused's trousers shows that they are similar to the soil samples submitted by the Detective Inspector,
(i)	Statements of accused. The court admitted in evidence two statements of accused (Ex.S, R 31j Ex,T, R 32) without objection by the defense. In these statements he asserted he met a girl at the dance on the evening of A June 1943 (whom he thought was Annie Kebby but was not certain). Ke made an appointment to meet her by a nearby hotel after the dance, and the appointment was kept by both. They proceeded to an obscure place on a road, Ke admitted he had sexual intercourse with the girl, but asserted that the girl was a voluntary party to it. After the consummation of the act they sat talking for about 35 minutes and agreed to meet the next night at Overton, As they were returning down a hill accused fell and the girl stumbled over him. An argument arose wherein the girl hit him with a stick or parasol. She showed him the way back to camp,
5,	Accused, upon being advised of his rights, elected to remain silent (R 41), but the following witnesses produced by the defense testified as follows:
(a)	Lillian May Hand. Ridgeways, Mickeldene Road, Whitchurch, was serving refreshments at the dance held at the Church Hall, at Whitchurch on the evening of 4 June 1943, Miss Kebby came towards her complaining, "Oh, my head, my head. I do feel ill", A colored boy not the accused, asked for coffee for her but was given a cup of tea. The girl asked for an aspirin tablet. She looked ill. There were three girls and three colored boys in the group (R 33>3^),
(b)	Francis Maud Perry. Motor Garage, VJhitchurch, on 4 June 1943 lived next door to the Church Hall. About 10:00 P.M. she saw Miss Kebby standing between witness's house and the hall talking to two colored men. They appeared to be persuading her to return to the hall, which she did.
She did nothing anyone could disapprove (R 35).
Gil
_ 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL,
241102
(194)
CONFIDENTIAL
(c)	Helena Ann Beal. 43 London Street, Whitchurch, assisted in serving refreshments at the dance at the Church Hall on the evening of 4 June 1943. About 10:30 P.M. she saw Kiss Kebby in the kitchen. A colored soldier not the accused, had his arm around- her. Witness later saw Miss Reboy and thought she looked sick. Witness advised her to go home (R 36).
(d)	William Roberts. Bell Inn, Whitchurch,, was licensee of the "Bell" public house. On the evening of 4 June 1943, Miss Kebby was in his place of business. He served her with three glasses of cider (R 37,
33).
(e)	Edward E. Wolfe. Captain, Medical Corps, stated that hymeneal tears could occur through exercise, horse-back riding and dancing, "Jitterbugging" could effect such condition.
The witness expressed the opinion that a small hymeneal tear, anteriorly and to the right could not have been produced by sexual intercourse and that he would assume that a female with such hymeneal tear and with her vagina patent was virginal (R 39-42).
6.	The court after a recess convened at the scene of the crime.
The personnel of the prosecution and defense, the accused, Miss Kebby, and the reporter were present* Upon interrogation by the•law member and a member of the court and in the presence of accused, Miss Kebby repeated the incidents connected with the assault upon her pointing out to the court the places where the alleged incidents occurred (R 46-43).
The practice of "viewing the premises" by a military court is authorized procedure (AW 3l). However, the practice of receiving testimony and examining witnesses at a "view of the premises" is almost universally condemned and usually is reversible error (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, p.833, sec.410, note 49; 16 C.J., p.827, sec.2092, note 9; 23 C.J.S., p.334, sec.986, note 52;. A "view of the premises" properly conducted and not coupled with the examination 'of witnesses may in many instances be extremely helpful and informatory to the court.
When in addition, the court either permits or directs an examination of a witness at the scene of the event it is indulging in a highly dangerous practice, which is not approved or commended.
In the instant case Miss Kebby appeared as a witness for the prosecution in its case in chief and was subjected to cross-examination by defense counsel (R l-ll). Afterithe arguments by prosecution and defense she was called to the stand as the court's witness and was examined by the President of the court and members thereof (R 42-46), but she was not cross-examined by either the trial judge advocate or the defense counsel. Thereafter the court convened at the scene of the crime and she was examined as previously stated. The record affirmatively shows the presence of accused and his counsel at the "view of the premises"
- 6 —
CONFIDENTIAL
and during the examination of Miss Kebby thereat, but no objection was offered nor did defense counsel request the right to cross-examine her.
A close comparative study of Miss Kebby's testimony presented on the three separate occasions when she appeared as a witness fails to reveal any material differences. The recitation of events given by her while at the "premises" introduced no fact not shown by her prior testimony. .
If such narrative be entirely eliminated from' consideration, there remains in the record her previous competent testimony in proof of the same facts to which she testified at the scene of the crime. Under the particular circumstances of this case it appears to the Board of Review tha.t the examination of Miss Kebby at the "view" was an error of procedure not injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused, and under AW 37 the findings were not thereby invalidated.
7.	The following comments on the admission or exclusion of certain evidence are relevant:
(a)	The statement of Miss Kebby to her mother immediately upon
her reaching.home on the night of the assault:	"I	have been knocked
down by a black man" (R 5,9,12 & 13) was admissible for purpose of confirming the victim's testimony and not as proof that a crime was committed. It serves to rebut the inference of consent that might be drawn-from her silence. The nature of her complaint may be shown although it involves particulars to some extent (52 C.J., sec.90,91, pp.1063-1067).
(b)	It was error for the court to sustain prosecution's objection to defense's question directed to Miss Kebby on cross-examination: "*** why didn't you make an outcry, knock on a door, accost some-one?" (R 7) (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, 4-th Ed., sec.675, p.1273). However,
it is not prejudicial to the rights of accused in the face ox otherwise convincing proof of guilt.
(c)	Mrs. Kebby testified that since the assault her daughter "is very highly strung ***. Keeps calling out at night'***. I has to have someone sleep with her". Such testimony was admissible to corroborate Miss.Kebby's testimony and to.show the probability a rape, was commi'ted. (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, 4-th Ed., sec.671, p.1262).
The use by Miss Kebby on cross-examination of a map or sketch of V/hitchurch without proof of authenticity of the map and without introducing same in evidence (R 7) was error. However, it was an error invited by the defense and cannot therefore be prejudicial. (CM ETC 4-38, Smith).
1(e) There is no direct proof in the record that Detective Inspector Old collected a specimen of soil from."Dances Lane" and delivered it to technician Davidson of the Metropolitan laboratory, nox-
- 7 -
CONFIDENiiAL
241102
CONFIDENTIAL
that Old received and delivered to Davidson, Miss Kebby's clothing (Exs. A,B,C,D,E,F,M) and accused’s clothing (Exs. N,0,P,Q,R). The absence of this proof affects only the weight and credibility of Davidson's report and not its admissibility under the stipulation (R 17) accepting it as his testimony. It is obvious that the court, prosecution and defense were satisfied that the articles examined by Davidson and described in his report were the articles which they purported to be.
Under such circumstances the absence of formal proof of Identity of the examined articles cannot be prejudicial error.
(f)	In the statements made by accused and received in evidence (Exs.S, R 31 j Ex.T, R 32) accused denied that he had raped Miss Kebby.
They were therefore not confessions. (CM ETO 292, Mickles). However, the statements contained admissions against interest and as such were admissible without proof of their voluntary character. (MOM 1928, par.llAjS, p.H7).
8.	Accused's identity as Miss Kebby's assailant on the night of A-5 June 19A3 at or near Whitchurch is proved by (a) accused's admission that he had sexual intercourse with a girl whom he "thinks" was.Miss Kebby at the exact time and place described by the victim} (b) Miss Kebby's positive identification of accused as the colored soldier who raped her; (c) evidence of the condition of accused's clothing and the presence of blood thereon of the typing within Miss Kebby's blood group and of mud similar to that found in "Dances Lane", the scene of the assault. There is therefore substantial, competent evidence to sustain the finding of the court that it was accused who raped Miss Kebby.
The victim's testimony displays intrinsic proof of its truth and veracity. It was thrice repeated and there are small, if any, variations in the recitals of the vital facts. The differences are of a nature that gives verity to the testimony rather than doubt. It is substantially corroborated by (a) the girl's prompt complaint of the assault to her mother and her physical and mental condition upon her return to her home; (b) the condition of the locus of the crime discovered by Detective Inspector Old within a short time after the commission of the offense; (c) the torn, mud-spotted and blood-stained condition of Miss. Kebby's clothing and (d) the marks of violence upon her body.
Rape is the unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman by force and without her consent (MCM 1928, par.lASb, p.165). That the accused accomplished the act of intercourse with Miss Kebby without her consent and with great force and violence is proved beyond all reasonable doubt. Penetration was established by (a) accused's admission of an act of intercourse and (b) Dr. Rubin's testimony of the existence of the rupture of the victim's hymen.
- 8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
confidential
(197)
All of the elements of the crime of rape exist. (CM ETO 90, Edmonds: CM ETO 397, Shaffer). The Board of Review is of the opinion that there is substantial competent evidence in the record to support the findings of guilty. The crime was one of barbaric violence and was an exhibition of animalism in its most repugnant form. There are no mitigating circumstances. Accused merits prompt and drastic puhishment.
9.	Accused is of the age of 25 years. His approved sentence includes confinement for ten years. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the crime of rape by 35 Stat. 13A3, 18 U.S.C. 457;
35 Stat. 1152, 18 U.S.C. 567; AW 42. By War Department letter AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941 as amended by War-Department letter AG 253
6-13-41, prisoners under 31 years of age and with sentences of not more than 10 years will be confined in a Federal Correctional Institution or Reformatory. Therefore,.confinement in Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio is proper. Accused's return to the United States and execution of sentence to dishonorable discharge is authorized. (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 Sep 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 Dec 1942).
10.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the, accused and the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
Judge Advocate
udge Advocate
Judge Advocate
241102
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
Gil
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
WD, Branca Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. ^8"	TO:	Commanding
Officer, Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA.
1.	In the case of Pvt. ISIAH (Ml) PCRTER (34122893), 434th Engineer Company (Dump Truck), attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this
office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 611. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at. the end of the order:	(ETO 611)*
E. C. McNEIL, V 'rs*" TSSgadier General, United States Assistant Judge Advocate^General,:
#(199)
