#(167)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General
with the European Theater of APO 871
Operations
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1267
(
UNITED STATES , )
)
v.	)
)
Second Lieutenant HARVARD	)
C. BAILE3 (0-1292278) 9th	)
Infantry.	.	)
15 FEB 1944
2ND INFANTRY DIVISION
Trial by G.C.M., convened at • Armagh, Northern Ireland, 17 December 1943* Sentence; Dismissal,
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW	.	,
RIT2R, VAN EENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate, General in charge of the Branch, Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater bf Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications;
CHARGE I; Violation of the 85th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	2nd-Lieutenant Harvard C.
Bailes, Ninth Infantry, was, at or near , Ballyscullion, Northern Ireland, on or about 3 December 1943» found, drunk while on duty as the First Battalion, Ninth, Infantry,
,	.	Communications	Officer.
CHAR® II; Violation of the 96th Article of War.
(Finding of not guilty).
Specification; (Finding of not guilty).
He pleaded not guilty and was found guilty of Charge I and its Specification and not guilty of Charge II and its Specification., No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service and to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due. The
- 1 -
reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 2nd Infantry Division, approved the sentence and forwarded the record for action pursuant, to Article of War 48, The confirming authority, the Commanding General, .European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence., remitted that portion thereof adjudging total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and withheld the order directing execution of the sentence pursuant to the provisions of Articlecf JFar
3,	The evidence for the prosection shows in substan.ee that accused was communications officer of the let Battalion, 9th Infantry (r6,12). About 3«3°	3 December, 1943« reported to Lieutenant
Colonel John B. Brainerd, Jr,, 9th Infantry, at the letter's office at BallyscuMon House, Northern Iceland, which was then being used as a headquarters, and started to, explain the communications set up of the division. Colonel Brainerd testified that his explanations and speech were incoherent, his breath smelled of alcohol and he was not steady but ■had some stagger j.n hi's walk", He was unable, to "explain what the situation was", and thought he had a diagram in his possession which he was unpble to produce as it . had already been delivered by another person*. Colonel Brainerd asked him why his hand was bandaged and he attempted to explain. There was some talk about an accident in which he had been invplved. After about ten minutes, because of accused's condition.
Colonel Brainerd ordered him to get into his jeep and return immediately to Armagh Barracks. Instead, accused continued with his explanations, whereupon Colonel'Brainerd repeated the order and left the room in disgust to put an end to the "incoherent conversation". In his opinion accused was under the influence of intoxicating liquor (r6-9)«
%	•	1	,
When accused entered the office, Captain Frank E, Ball, $th Infantry, executive officer of the 1st Eattalion immediately noticed the tone of his voice and the manner in which he saluted. He did not talk normally, was unable to "describe what he was talking about* and his breath smelled of alcohol. One of his hands was bandaged, which fact, possibly .
. accounted for the.improper salute which he rendered. In Captain Ball's opinion he was drunk* He believed that Colonel Erainexd would speak to accused about his condition and as he did not desire to hear the conversation he left after hearing a few words (R12, 14-15» 18), About 20 minutes later he saw accused in the kitchen where his actions were"sloppy", He .leaned over a table, demanded a cup of coffee and talked in a louder tone than was usual* About six enlisted men were present. In Captain Ball's opinion he was still drunk. Captain Ball also smelled alcohol on the breath of Sergeant Watson, who was in the hallway (R13,l6-
17).
From a window Colonel Brainerd observed that the driver of accused's vehicle was vomiting and sent a staff sergeant down to see if he had been drinking and to investigate his condition. When Colonel Brainerd’went downstairs he heard accused talking in a loud tone of voice in the kitchen and ordered a staff sergeant to tell him to report
- 2 -
(169)
in the dining room where he placed him under arrest. He also talked with Sergeant Watson and noticed that he had been drinking but that "he was in better shape than anyone elsd". Because of the driver’s condition. Colonel Brainerd substituted as driver Private First Class William T. Anderson, Headquarters Company, 1st' Battalion, 9th Infantry, and informed accused that Anderson would take him back to Armagh Barracks where he was to report to his room, and that the regimental conmander would be informed ‘of this action-. Anderson was ordered not to stop’thd vehicle under any circumstances (R9-ll,20).
i
At the time he was at Ballyscullion House accused was on duty as communications officer of'the 1st Battalion, 9th Infantry, and.in the opinion of Colonel Brainerd and Captain Ball his condition was such that he was not capable of performing his duties (R8,13).
During the return to Armagh Barracks accused rode in'the front seat with Anderson, and Private Hallman, the former driver, and Sergeant Watson rode in'the rear.. Anderson saw accused enter the vehicle and testified that "he could walk pretty gbod", that "he had been drinking", but that he could not say whether he was drunk (R20,24).
During the ride back accused "took a drink more than once" from a bottle which.he had in his possession and then threw the bottle away. Anderson refused accused^ offer of a drink and did not see anyone else'take a drink (R21). Accused told Anderson who was in the same company that •if I related anything that happened during the trip it would be tough for ms in his section* (R22,25). When Anderson refused his request to stop in Stuartsville because he had been ordered by Colonel Brainerd "to keep right on going", accused grabbed the emergency brake and "made a pass for the steering wheel". It was dark and as he was driving slowly Anderson was able to stop the Vehicld quickly. When it ran against the curb, Hallman and Watdon were thrown against the front seat. The only other stop made was when they became lost and all of them left the vehicle to make inquiries. Anderson further testified that during the ride accused spoke in his normally loud tone‘of voice. After‘taking him to Armagh Barracks, Anderson returned to Ballyscullion House (R22-26).
4	i
I
4.	For the defense. Sergeant Thurman T. Watson, Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 9th Infantry, testified that'Hallman started to drive accused-and-Watson from Armagh Barracks to Ballyscullion where they were to deliver some diagrams of the telephone circuits. When they stopped to obtain gas at Cookstown accused entered another vehicle with a Lieutenant Mills and drove to meet a-forwaTd detail of the company. He later returned and entered his own car. Watson assumed that accused left the diagrams by mistake in Lieutenant Mill’s vehicle and they were delivered to Ballyscullion House by someone else before the arrival of accused’s party (R28,38,40-41)• At Cookstown a •four-fifths" bottle of liquor was purchased (R33) and Watson saw accused take one drink at the cafe where-'th^y Had lunch (R31). They later had ah accident near Cookstown. Accused went back to town and returned with a "jeep*, another driver, and a 2-1/2 ton truck (R41-42). Watson saw
(170)
accused take another dfink fronrthe bottle and carry a’third drink of whiskey in a cup into*another room at Cheever's Cafe in Cookstown after the accident (R31-32,34»36)* He saw him take a fourth drink -Ilring their return trip to Armagh Barracks (R3I). Watson had two drinks from the bottle at Cheevdr'£ Cafe and two drinks by the side of the road after the.accident* During the ride to Armagh Barracks he took a.fifth drink from the bottle which was between the two front seats. The liquor belonged to accused and the drinks were takep by Watson without his knowledge or permission (R32.35“3(,«37«39)• Hallman, the-driver, did not drive after the accident and did not take any drinks before it occurred. Watson saw him take about five drinks after the accident (R41-42).
• i	I	»	  ....
• During the return trip to Armagh Barracks, afccused sat in the front seat. In Watson's opinion his actions and speech were normal, and there was no indication that he had been drinking. He did not hear accused offer a drink to the driver Anderson, or threaten him, nor did he see him seize the. emergency brake or steering wheel. Watson was not thrown against the front seat at any time and he did not recall that the vehicle struck a curb. They stopped but once just outside*Stuartstown to look at a sign post (R29-30,34-35»39)•
Accused mad6 an unsworn statement in substance as follows:
On the date alleged*he prepared a diagram which.he was to take to Colonel Brainerd and started for Ballyscullion. He "ran out of gas* near Dungannon and while the vehicle was being refueled he transferred to Lieutenant Mills' "jeep" in order to deliver a sack of mail. He left the diagram by mistake in this car when he later returned to his own vehicle. He had a drink when they ate at Cookstown. Later, when they were goin& down a hill a boy started to cross the road. Hallioan put on the brakes and. as the road was "slick" the vehicle hit one tree and stopped against another. They secured another vehicle and driver at-a camp and drove to Ballyscullion House (R43)* ‘ He reported to Colonel Brainerd and saluted "the best I could" with his bandaged hand. The diagram had been delivered by Lieutenant Mills. Accused conferred about the communications system with Colonel Brainerd who Said’that he did not want to have anything to do with it and that he "wanted to dump the whole thing in the Division's lap". Accused informed him that since Major* BeLieu told him "we were in charge of it", he felt that it was his duty ■to work it up". He explained certain features to Colonel Brainerd who said "O.K.« you've done a good job. You better rdn along before dark*. Accused went to the kitchen, asked for a cup of coffee and talked with Captain Ball. After he was told by a cOrporal that Colonel Brainerd wanted to see him,.he talked with him for a few.minutes.	"Never before
in the whole 'conversation did he mention drinking. It's'my opinion thdt the ColonOl was not impressed or even thought that I. had been drinking until he had seen the driver vomitting".* * During the return trip to Armagh, they stopped but once when they lost their way and asked for directions. He did not threaten the driver nor seize the emergency
brake or steering wheel. When he reached Armagh Barracks he was infoimed
. ^
4 -
"that the colonel" had called and that he would be under arrest in
quarters(R44)•
5.	The evidence is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty of being drunk on duty in violation of Article of War 85 (Charge I and Specification). Accused was communications officer of the 1st Battalion, 9th Infantry, and was directed to report to Colonel Brainerd and to explain the communications system of the division. He prepared a diagram which he was to deliver to Colonel Brainerd. He was told by a Major BeLieu that "we were in charge of it". The fact that he was on a duty status when the offense was committed was not disputed.
"The term’ 'duty' as used in this article means of course military duty. But, it is important to note, every duty which an officer or soldier is legally required, by superior military authority, to execute, and for the proper execution of which he is answerable to such authority, is necessarily a military duty." (MCM., 1928, par.145, p.159).
The evidence showed that accused had a bottle of liquor and took at least three drinks before reaching Ballyscullion House, When he reported to Colonel Erainerd his speech was incoherent, his breath smelled of alcohol and he staggered to a certain extent. He was unable to explain the communications system and when Colonel Brainerd ordered him to return to Armagh Barracks he continued with his explana tions. Colonel Brainerd repeated his order and left the room in "disgust" in order to end the incoherent conversation. Accused was later observed in. the kitchen where his actions were "sloppy". He leaned over a'table, spoke in a loud tone of voice and demanded a cup of coffee. Both Colonel Brainerd and Captain Eall testified that in their opinion he was drunk.
"any intoxication which is sufficient sensibly to impair the rational and full exercise of the mental and physical faculties is drunkenness within the mean-1	•	ing	of the article"(AW 85) (MCM., I928,
par.145. 1^.160),	*	’	1	*
T^e issue of drunkenness was one of fact for the sole determination of the court, and in view of the evidence the Board of Review will not disturb its findings (CM ETO IO65, Stratton).
6.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 24 years of age and that he entered on extended active duty 3 September 1942.
7* The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of . the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. A sentence of dismissal is mandatory upon the conviction of an officer of being drunk on duty in time of war in violation of Article of War 85 (AW 85j CM 255639 (1942),-Bui. JAG, Oct.1942, Vol. I, No. 5, par.
443, P.275).
let Ind
(173)
1 S FFB 1944
TO, Brapch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. x	To:	Commanding
General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.
1.	In the case of Second Lieutenant* HARVARD C. BAHES(0-1292278), 9th Infantry, 2nd Infantry Division, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that, the record of* trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50i» you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
* 2. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number in this office is ETO 1267, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the ojjier:	f
(ETO 1267).	-
‘Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence as previously mitigated ordered executed. GCMO 10, ETO, 22 Feb 1944)

#(175)
