#(55)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD CF REVIEW ETO 1165
UNITED STATES v.
Private*First Class JOHN F. VITTITCE (20700151), Company G, 6th Armored Infantry.*
)
)
)
)
)
27 JAN 1944
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPET, EUROPEAN THEATER CF • OPERATIONS*
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, 6 December 19A3. Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for life. United States Penitentiary, Lewis-burg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW	.	:
RITER, VAN BEHSCKOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications*
CHARGE I* Violation of the 75th Article of War.
(Nolle Prosequi).
Specification*	(Nolle	Prosequi).
CHARGE II* Violation of the 59th Article of War.
(Nolle Prosequi).
Specification*	(Nolle Prosequi). *
CHARGE III* Violation of- the 96th Article of War.
(Nolle Prosequi).
Specification*	(Nolle Prosequi).
1
CHARGE 37:	Violation	of	the	58th	Article	of	War.
Specification:	In	that Private First Class John
F. Vlttitoe, now attached as a prisoner,
Western Base Guardhouse, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, then of Company G., Sixth Armored Infantry,
Makhassy, Tunisia, did at Constantine,
Algeria, on or about 8 April 1943, desert the service of the United States and did • remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Newcastle-Under-Lyme,
Staffordshire, England, on or.about 6 October,
1943.
He pleaded guilty to and was found guilty of Charge IV and its Specification. Evidence of two previous convictions by special courts- . martial was introduced; One for absence without leave, disobeying superior officer and attempting to deceive superior officer in violation of Articles of War 61, 64 and 96, and one for absence without leave for ten days, loss of government property and appearing in civilian clothing without proper authority in violation of Articles of War 61, 84 and 96.
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to.be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for the term of his natural life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50^-.
3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the approved sentence, (CM ETO 656, Taylor; CM ETO 740, Lane: -CM ETO. 800, Ungard:
CM ETO 823, Poteet: CM ETO 875, Fazio, et al). •
•	■	.	•	v	i
• 4.	The charge sheet shows that the accused is 23 years six months '
of age.	Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of
desertion during time of war (AW 42). The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the £>lace of confinement
•v; 3a).
_____ Judge Advocate
Advocate udge Advocate
1.	In the case of Private First Class JOHN F. VITTITOE (20700151) Company G, 6th Armored Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^-you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	The specification in this case, to which accused pleaded guilty, alleges desertion from the Sixth Armored Infantry, Haknassy, Tunisia, a combat unit, on April 8, 194-3 terminated by apprehension in England on October 6, 1943. No evidence was introduced and the accused made no statement so the court had just this and nothing more. These facts alpne do not warrant a sentence of confinement for life. Sentences of confinement should be reasonable and just before the return of prisoners to the United States.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1165. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1165).
Brigadier General, United States Army, ■ Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(59)
