#(365)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 817
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Second Lieutenant LEST JIT C. ) YOUNT (0-1292273), 115th	)
Infantry.	)
15 OCT 1943
29TH INFANTRY DIVISION
Trial by G.C.M., convened at APO 29, U.S» Army, 6 September 194-3. Sentence:	To	be	dismissed	the
service.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The*Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations .
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 64-th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	2nd Lt. Lesley C. Yount,
U5th Inf. having received a lawful command from Lt. Col. William E. Warfield his superior officer, to go at once to his quarters, did at Scarne Cross Camp on or about 22 August 194-3, willfully disobey the same.
CHARGE II: Violation of xhe 69th Article of Yiar.
Specification:	In	that	2nd Lt. Lesley C. Yount,
115th Infantry, having been doily placed in arrest; at Scarne Crbss Camp, on or about 22 August 1943, did, at Scarne Cross Camp, on or about 22 August 1943, break his said arrest before he was set at liberty by proper authority.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of noth charges and their specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances
1 •*
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for three years. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 29th Infantry Division, approved only so much of the sentence as provides for dismissal and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 4#* The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence as approved by the convening authority and, pursuant to Article of'War 50§", withheld the execution thereof,
3,	The testimony for the prosecution was substantially as follows: Lieutenant-Colonel William E. Warfield, Headquarters 2nd.Battalion, 115th Infantry, on Sunday 22 August 194-3 saw accused several times in the afternoon and noticed that he had "a couple of drinks of beer or something" j when the Colonel came out of the officers* mess after dinner he observed accused in the vestibule by the telephone with his head on the table (R7,9,10). It was about time for accused, who had been appointed patrol officer for that day, to go on duty in town. The Colonel was of the opinion that accused was not in suitable condition for this duty (R7) and directed Captain Richard P, Scott (R6) 115th Infantry and Adjutant of the 2nd Battalion to take over (R7,9)» Colonel Warfield did not believe accused was drunk but he had been drinking (R7). Around 10:30 that evening, Colonel Warfield returned to the officers* mess and as he walked in accused approached him and asked why he had been relieved from duty as patrol officer (R7,10,12) and said he was not drunk (-R7). Accused seemed "rather annoyed" that he had been relieved and was a bit argumentative. There were others, including civilians, present so the Colonel with accused moved outside. Accused was getting rather noisy and making such statements as, "I don't like this God-damn outfit and want to get out of it" and "This is no God-damn good battalion" or words to that effect. Captain William B. Sullivan, 115th Infantry, walked up while they were still in the lounge and went outside with them (R7,ll) and in the presence of Captain Sullivan, Colonel Warfield ordered accused to go to his quarters and told him that he was under arrest (R7,ll). He could tell that accused had been drinking, "don't know if I would call him drunk". Accused then admitted that he understood the order but said he "was not ready as yet to go to his quarters" (R8,ll). Captain Sullivan endeavored to nersuade accused to go to his quarters before he got into further trouble (R8). Lieutenant Livingston L. Eaddy, officer of the guard, came by and Colonel Warfield directed him (Lieutenant Eaddy) to take accused to his quarters which he did (R8,12,14.17,19,29-31) and told accused he was supposed to stay in his quarters (R17,19;« This was 5 to 10 minutes after accused had been ordered to go to his quarters. Lieutenant Eaddy refused to say whether or not accused was drunk (R20). As Colonel Warfield, Captain Sullivan and Lieutenant Eaddy stood in the vestibule talking and a short time later, accused walked in (R8,14,15,21). Colonel Warfield then directed the officer of the guard to take accused to his quarters (R8) and to see that he stayed there (R9,15,17), A half hour later Lieutenant Eaddy reported to the Colonel that he had put accused in his quarters "and had put a guard over him (R9)»
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(367)
4.	Second Lieutenant Ted. R. Gnrney, Company "G", 115th Infantry, a defense witness, testified that Colonel Warfield came to him in the mess-hall around six o’clock and told him to take accused to his quarters as he was asleep by the telephone with his head on the table. Accused was "under the influence of liquor" when witness saw him in the lounge "around 10 o’clock that night"(R21) and he had been "drinking in the afternoon" (R22).
Second Lieutenant Lawrence J. Bushery, Company "E", 115th Infantry, a defense witness, saw accused drinking in the lounge on Sunday, 22 August and overheard some of the conversation between accused and Colonel Warfield, including the statement by accused that he could do anything that Captain Scott could downtown and "that Colonel Warfield had made a statement a few times that if things were getting too tough or hard for any officer in the battalion that he could go to the Colonel and arrangements for a transfer would be made", and accused "told Colonel Warfield that he wanted to get out of the battalion right now" (R23). In the opinion of witness accused was drunk (R23,24). He had known accused since September 1942 and knows "he does not go around talking like that when he is sober" (R23).
Captain Richard P. Scott, 115th Infantry^ a defense witness, saw accused on Sunday, 22 August 1943, in the officers' lounge right after mess and he had a bottle of scotch on a nearby table (R25). When Colonel Warfield directed^him to take over the officer patrol duty that night he also said for witness to tell accused "that hgfoas restricted" but witness had been unable to do so till later in the evening. He had however, informed the company commander Captain Davenport, to that effect (R26). Accused, in the opinion of witness "definitely was not sober" (R28),
Accused was sworn and in substance corroborated all prior testimony. He admitted drinking but did not remember some of the details. He insisted that Colonel Warfield had told him "that if the pressure got too tough that we should go to see him and he would get us transferred from out of the battalion". He did not remember Colonel Warfield telling him that he was under arrest but remembered Lieutenant Eaddy telling him. When asked if he were drunk that night, he answered, "in my opinion, drunk - is when you can't 'bend the elbow1"" (R29). He denied remembering the sergeant of the guard taking him to his quarters but almost immediately afterwards when again asked the same question, answered "Xes, sir" (R3l).
5.	The testimony presents no substantial conflict in the faots but rather an admission of the offenses charged with drunkenness as an excuse.
(a) - The willful disobedience contemplated in a violation of Article of War 64 is such as shows an intentional defiance of authority.
The proof required is:
• "a. That the accused received a certain command from a certain officer as alleged; b. That such officer was the accused's superior officer;
confid3fntiai
(368)
CONFIDENTIAL
c. That the accused willfully disobeyed such command. A command of a superior officer is presumed to be a lawful command11. (LEM.,
1928, par.134b, p.H9)v
The testimony is clear and substantial that Lieutenant-Colonel Warfield ordered accused to go to his quarters under arrest and that accused immediately told the Colonel he understood and knew what the Colonel meant but "that he was not ready as yet to go to his quarters" and he did not go until some 5 or 10 minutes later v/hen he was taken to his quarters at the further order of Colonel Warfield by the officer of the guard. The testimony also shows Lieutenant-Colonel Warfield was accused's superior officer, and that accused willfully disobeyed such command,
(b) - In breach of arrest under the 69th Article of War, "the restraint is moral restraint imposed by the orders fixing the limits of arrest ■***, The offense of breach of arrest is committed when the person in arrest infringes the limits set by orders *** and the intention or motive that actuated him is immaterial to the issue of guilt ***". The proof required is:
"a. That the accused was duly placed in arrest; and
b, That before he was set at liberty by proper authority, he transgressed the limits fixed **** by the orders of proper authority ***".
(LEM., 1928, 139a, pp.l53-15A).
In the opinion of the Board of Review the facts clearly show the commission by the accused of each of the offenses charged.
"It is a general rule of law that voluntary drunkenness **** is not an excuse for crime committed while in that condition; but it may be considered as affecting mental capacity to entertain a specific intent, where such intent is a necessary element of the offense. *■#■# In courts-martial, however, evidence of drunkenness of the accused fl-x-x* is generally admitted in evidence." (LEM,, 1928, par.126a, p.135),
•
The evidence shows that accused recalled in detail all the particulars of the offenses charged except those not convenient to support his implied defense that he was drunk and that he did not intentionally commit the offenses charged. The court by its findings showed it did not believe accused w&s under the influence of liquor to the extent that he did not loiow what he was doing. It was the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses and the weight and sufficiency of the evidence which amply supports the findings.
- A -
uUNFIDENTIAL
(369)
6,	Accused is 23 years old. He enlisted L February 1939 and was discharged as an enlisted man on 31 August 1942 to accept a commission.
7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Advocate
- 5 ~
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
WE, Branch Office TJAG., with EIOUSA. 15 OCT 1943 General, ET0U5A, APO 887, U. S. Army.
TO* Commanding
1.	In the case of Second Lieutenant LESLEY C. YOUNT (0-1292273), 115th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient tp support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of. War 50-^, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 817. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETD -817).
Brigadier General, United States Army Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 22, ETO, 19 Oct 19A3)
— £) —
P.nMFinFNTUI
#(371)
