#(375)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW
ETO 1515
* * ► • > ► 1 - . * UNITED	STATES	)
) -
v.	-	)
)
Private J.D. (10) SMITH	)
(6951593), Company F,	)
23d Infantry.	)
)
)
)
HOLDING by >the BOARD * RITER, VAN BENSCHDTEN and
"6 MAR 1944
2D INFANTRY DIVISION.
\
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Market Hill, Northern Ireland 1 February 1944. Sentence1 Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. Eastern Branch,'United StdteS Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York.
OF REVIEW
SARGENT, judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
4	*
j	.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications!
CHAR® Ii Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification li (Finding of not guilty)
Specification 2i In that Private- J. D. (initials only) Smith, Company F, 23d Infantry, having received a lawful order from Corporal James R. Cantrell, Military Police, 2d Infantry Division, to return to his organization, the said Corporal Cantrell being in the execution of his office, did, at Armagh, North Ireland, on or about November 6, 1943* fail to obey the same. <
Specification 3* -■In that ********♦***, did fit Armagh, North Ireland, on.or about November 6, 1943* wrongfully attempt to strike Private-James-B. Edwards, Military Police, 2d Infantry Division, in the face with his fist.
(376)
CHARGE lit Violation of the 58th Article of War.
. Spacificationj In that ******•******, did, at 10th Station Hospital, Belfast, County Antrium, Worth Ireland, on or about Wovember 22, 1943» desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he.was apprehended at Belfast, County Antrium, North Ireland on or about January
10,	,1944.
» *
Ha pleaded not guilty, and was found not! guilty of Specification 1, Charge I, but guilty of Charge I and Specifications 2 and 3 thereof and of Charge II and its Specification. Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction by special .court-martial for being found drunk while a prisoner and failing to obey a sentinel's order, both in violation of Article of War 96, and for using threatening and insulting language towards three noncommissioned officers in violation of Article of War 65.	*	He- was sentenced to be dis-
honorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and .to be confined at hard labor for 50 years at such place as the reviewing authority may direct. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but reduced the period of confinement to 20 years, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York as the place of confinement and* forwarded the record of trial for action, pursuant to the provisions of Article of War
3* With reference to Specification 2 of Charge I, the evidence shows that at about 2330 hours on 6 November 1943 accused while on a public street in Armagh, Northern Ireland, was ordered to teturn to his organization, by Corporal James R. Cantrell, Military Police, 2nd Infantry Division, who was engaged in regular curfew check. Accused failed to obey the order. He was thereupon placed under arrest by the corporal (R9-10,12-13). This is adequate proof of accused's failure to obey the lawful order of a noncommissioned officer in the execution of his office in Violation of‘Article of War 96 as alleged (Manual for Courts-Martial I928, par,104c». p.100);
4.	.In support.of Specification 3# Charge I, the evidence shows that accused broke the arrest under which he was placed by Corporal Cantrell-and ran down the street* • H® attempted to strike Private James B. Edwards of the same Military Police Platoon, after the latter haddVertaken him and hit him on the neck with his club (RIO,13-15). This is clear evidence of an assault in violation of Article of War 96 as alleged (Manual^for Courts-Martial I928, par.l52a, p.189jpar.l49h, p.177).
f
In the opinion of the Board of Review the findings of guilty of Specifications 2 and 3t Charge I and of Charge I are fully supported by the record.
5.	Prosecution's evidence in proof of Charge II and its Specification, shows that on 6 November 1943 accused obtained from the first sergeant of his company a pass which expired at 2330 hours on that date (r6-7). After
- 2 -
(377)
his encounter with the Military Police, described above. Corporal Cantrell turned him over to an officer in the Special Units Dispensary (RIO). He. was then suffering from face injuries (Rll). * On 7 November he was delivered as a patient to the 10th Station Hospital in Belfast, Northern Ireland, by members of the 2nd Division Medical Detachment, and on 22 November was discharged from this hospital. He entered an ambulance but left it when it reached Belfast and did not return to his organization (Rl8; Ex.B). On 10 January 1944* accused was apprehended in civilian clothes in Eelfast by a sergeant of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, Belfast (Rl6,17). He was brought before the Head Constable, who asked him for a document of identification which he failed to produce, saying that his papers were at the Red Cross. When asked if he were a United States soldier, he replied that he was a merchant seaman and had to be aboard his ship at 10 o’clock that night. He further stated that he was an American citizen (R17-18). The Head Constable turned him over to the Military Police who brought him to Military Police Headquarters where he was placed under arrest. He there stated "that he was glad that he was picked up by the military authorities so he could be returned to military control" (Rl8,19-20)«
6.	Accused elected to appear as a witness on his own behalf. He testified that when he left the ambulance in Belfast'he went into a bar, , consumed a few drinks and did not return to the ambulance, but intended to travel by train that night to his camp (R22). He had 122 with him
at the time. During his absence he slept at the Y.M.C.A., the Red Cross, the Old Soldiers’ Home and the Salvation Army. He did not intend to hide and was in contact with members of his regiment. He explained his failure to return as followsj
■I got drunk and I always had a hangover ' and I knew that I would be tried and I was scared to come back and I kept on staying until forty-two days passed around."	-	■	-
He expected to return when his money "played out" (R23). He admitted on cross-examination that he had opportunities to return to his organization during his absence (R25). He .first dressed-in civilian clothes about 0200 hours on* the day of his apprehension (10 January 1944), for the purpose of crossing the "border" with another soldier. "He wanted to go to Dundalk across the border and I consented and I told him that I’d put on civilian clothes but when we got back we’d put our uniform back on and turn in"(R23). There was evidence that he was in uniform on 10 January 1944 in the company of another soldier for whom a Belfast resident obtained civilian clothes, and that later in the day he was in civilian clothes (R24).
*	.	1	J	t	\
7.	Accused’s absence without lesave from 22'November 1943 until 10 January 1944 is clearly established by the evidence, including his own sworn testimony. The only question presented by the record therefore is whether it contains sufficient efadence of accused's specific intent not
3
to return to the military service of the United States. In the opinion of the Eoard of Review, the record contains substantial evidence of such specific intent, prolonged absence, denial of identity, apprehension in civilian clothing! (CM ETO 656, Taylort CM ETO 740, Lane; CM ETO 800, Ungard; CM ETO 823, Poteet; CM ETO 875, Fazio; CM ETO 913. Pierno; CM ETO 952, Mosser; CM ETO 9^0 Fazio et al).
8.	' The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years seven months of
age. He enlisted 24 November 1939 end had no prior service.
9* The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously'affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Revidw is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority. The punishment for desertion committed in time, of war is death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct (AW 58). Confinement in a United States Disciplinary Barracks is authorized (AW 42).
Advocate
Advocate
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL')
(379)
1st Ind. .
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. . MAR 1944	To»	Commanding
General, 2d'Infantry Division, APO 2, U. S. Army,
1, In the case of Private J, D, (10) SMITH (6951593)* Company F,
23d Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50i, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2, When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1515* For convenience
of reference nleasa-©lace that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 1515 ).f
r/ /
^	E»	C,	MCNEIL,
Bl&gadier General, United States Army-, Assistant Judge Advocate General,
- 1 -

#(381)
