#(263)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review,
ETO 314.
UNITED STATES
v.
Private JAMES C. MASON, (340*0456), of Company "L", 118th Infantry,
% 6 m 1943
)	EASTERN DEFENSE AREA
)	UNITED STATES ARMI FORCES
)	IN ICELAND.
)
)	Trial by G.C.M., convened at
)	Camp Krossastadir, Iceland,
)	30 October 1942. Sentences
)	Dishonorable discharge,
)	forfeiture of all pay and
)	allowances and confinement at
)	hard labor for two years,
)	United States Disciplinary
)	Barracks,
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of Private James C. Mason has been examined in the Office of the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations.
2,	The accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of the 64th Article of War,
Specification:	In	that Private James C. Mason,
Company "L", 118th Infantry, having received a lawful command from First Lieutenant James E,
Work, Company "L", 118th Infantry, his superior officer, to continue his bayonet practice, did at Camp Fagriskogur, Akurejri, Iceland, on or about September 2, 1942, willfully disobey the same.
Qnvri^rriM-
241103
314
CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE II: Violation of the 65th Article of War,
Specification 1:	In	that	Private	James	C. Mason,
Company "L", .118th Infantry, did, at Camp Fagriskogar, Akureyri, Iceland, on or about September 2, 1942, strike Sergeant Carroll A. Gainey, Company "L", 118th Infantry, a noncommissioned officer who was then in .the execution of his office, by striking him on the leg with his bayonet.
Specification 2:	In	that	Private	James	C, Mason,
Company ®L", 118th Infantry, did, at Camp Fagriskogur, Aukrajri, Iceland, on or about September 2, 1942,■threaten to strike, Staff Sergeant John W. Ewings, Company "L", 118th	<•
Infantry, a noncommissioned officer on the arm with his bayonet, while said noncommissioned officer was in the execution of his office.
Specification 3» In that Private James C, Mason, Company "L", U8th Infantry, did at Camp Fagriskogur, Aukreyri, Iceland, on or about September 2, 1942, use the following insulting language toward Staff Sergeant John W. Ewings, Company "L", 118th Infantry, a noncommissioned officer who was then in the execution of his office, "Go fuck yourself, I won't do it", or words to that effect.
He pleaded not guilty to Charge I and its Specification, and Specification 2, Charge II; guilty to Specification 1 of Charge. II and to Charge II; not guilty to Specification 3, Charge II as stated, guilty of the Specification If the words, "I won't do it" are stricken out. He was found guilty of all Charges and Specifications;; Specification 3 of Charge II by substitution and exception. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
He was sentenced to dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for six years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended the dishonorable discharge until the release of accused from confinement; remitted four years of the sentence; and designated the United States Disciplinary’ Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, as the place of confinement and directed that'accused be confined in the United States Prison Stockade until further notice.
The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Order No. 5, Headquarters, Eastern Defense Area, U.S. Army Forces in Iceland, dated 12 January 1943»
241103
314
CONFIDENTIAL
(265)
3.	The accused on 2 Sept 1942 was a member of Company "L", 118th Infantry stationed at Camp Fragriskogar, akureyri, Iceland.
Cn that date the platoon of which accused was a member was engaged in bayonet, drill. Staff Sergeant John hi. Ewings, Company "L",
118th Infantry gave the commands and Sergeant Carrol A. Gainey, Company "L", 118th Infantry was the guide and observer. He was directed by Ewings to correct errors and defects in performance of the men (R.5,6,7,8). Ewings gave the command "On guard to long thrust" (R.5,7;. Gainey, in the performance of his duties, came to accused and observed that accused v/as leaning backwards (R.7). Gainey informed accused he was in a wrong position which accused denied (R.7). In order to demonstrate to accused his mistake Gainey touched the end of accused's bayonet and this threw him off -his balance (R.6,7,8). Accused immediately upon regaining his balance struck Gainey on the leg with his bayonet (R.6,7,l0) and cursed him (R.7). Ewings, seeing the disturbance, approached Gainey and accused (R.6,7). Accused then cursed Ewings (R.7,10) and swung at him (R.6). Ewings grabbed the gun and pulled it out of accused's hands (R.6,7), and ordered•Gainey to take accused to Lieut. Work, accused's immediate commanding officer (R.6,7,9). Accused said:	"I	am	not	going	any	God-damn	where"	(R.6). Gainey
put a clip of ammunition in his rifle (R.6,8) and said to accused, "Yes, you are" (R.6). Accused said to Gainey, two or three times: "I will kill you" (R.6). Gainey then escorted accused to Lieut. Work (R.7), who directed Gainey to take accused back to the platoon and go on with bayonet practice (R.7). ‘ Gainey ordered accused to -return to his work but accused refused (R.7), Thereupon Lieut.
VIork ordered accused to go back to the platoon and to continue bayonet practice (R.7,9). Accused refused stating that he was not going, but would rather go “under guard (R.7,9). Lieut. Work then placed him under guard (R.7).
4-. During the course of presentation of evidence on behalf of the defense, defense counsel stated to the Court that accused wished to take the stand (R.10). The following colloquy occurred:
"President:	Has	the defense explained to you that yOu
do not have to take the stand to make a sworn statement? Accused:	No	Sir.
Defense:	Fay	I	refresh his memory about that?
President: You understand that you may remain silent or make an unsworn statement, and that by making a unsworn statement, the court will consider it. But if you make a sworn statement, the trial judge advocate may ask questions leading out of the offense, or any member of the court, the answers which may prove whether or not you are guilty.
Defense:	Could	the defense ask the court to consider
an inquiry into the sanity of the accused at this time? President: Such a request may be brought up at any time. What is the basis for this request?
241103
314
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL ,
"Defense:	I	think	the actions of the accused in
court would render some questions as to his stability and judgement and all. Testimony that has been brought before the court would bear out the same thing I believe. I cannot mention his record or past actions.
President: The only evidence you have to offer at •thi3 time is the actions of the accused in court.
Does -the trial judge advocate have anything further to offer in connection with this.
Prosecution:	No Sir.
The court was then closed and upon being opened, the members of the court, the personnel of the prosecution and defense, and the accused and the reporter resumed their seats.
President:	The	court has considered the motion of
the defense, that the sanity of the accused be investigated. The court has determined that such an inquiry is necessary in the interest of justice.
The trial judge advocate will report this matter to the appointing authority with a recommendation that the accused be examined by a Board of Officers in accordance with paragraph 35 ECU 1928, and that the officer or officer's conducting the examination be made available to this court as witnesses. This case will be continued at such time as the decisions of the appointing authority are determined," (R. 10,11).
The Court thereupon on 30 Oct 1942 continued the case awaiting the decision of the appointing authority (R.12).
Thereafter on 18 Dec 1942 the court reconvened (R.12) and proceeded to consider the report of the Board of Officers appointed to investigate the sanity of the accused. The record is entirely silent as to any further action with respect to accused appearing as a witness on his own behalf (R.12)• However, after members of the Board of Officers had been examined and their report admitted in evidence (R,15,16.17,13) the defense offered one witness (2nd Lt. De Lissovoy) who was examined by defense counsel.. The prosecution declined to offer further evidence and waived its right of opening argument (R.18). The President of the Court then asked the defense if it had anything further to offer. Defense counsel replied:	"The	defense	would like to make a closing statement.
(R.18), and proceeded with his remarks (R.19) •
While the procedure followed by the Court with respect to accused's rights under Il.C.E. par.76, p.6lj par.120c, p.125; and par.121b, p.127, is not as complete or explicit as efficient and proper practice dictates, the President did make an explanation to
241103
- 4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
314
CONFIDENTIAL
accused of his rights. «7hether he understood the explunation is not made clear by the record. However, it is proper to presume the accused received from defense counsel explanation of his right* to testify or reraain silent (lI.C.K, sec,45e, p,35) and xipon reconvening of Court, reconsidered his decision to testify and. elected to remain silent. The failure of the Court to amplify its explanation to accused of his rights and to determine definitely whether he understood then specifically was a procedural irregularity at the most (CM 154354> Marion:	CM	211976,	Palmer).	Inasmuch as
full opportunity was afforded accused either to appear as his own witness or to make an unsworn statement either orally or in writing, no prejudice to his rights are observable.
5. The evidence is indisputable that Lieut. Work, accused’s superior officer, gave him an order to return to the platoon and resume bayonet exercise (R.7,8,9). There is no doubt in the l£ast that accused knew Lieut. Work was his superior officer; that he understood the order and deliberately refused to obey same. The order related to military duty and Lieut. Work waa authorized to give it. Accused’s conduct constituted a violation of the 64-th Article of War (M.C.M. par,134b, p.143,149; CM 223336 (1942),
Bui. JAG., Aug 1942, par.422. p.159; CM 220890 (1942), Bui. JAG., Jan-June 1942, par.422, p.lSj,
The Board of Review believes it should distinguish the facts in this case from those involved in two cases recently considered by it, viz: CM. ETO 108, Abram3 and CM. ETO 110, Bartlett so that no misunderstanding will arise in the application of the rule announced in the last mentioned cases. In the Bartlett case the Board of Review said:
"The Board of Review does not now hold that every order given by an officer to a soldier after a like order has been given by a non-commissioned officer to the soldier (and the soldier has refused to obey the same) constitutes an order given with the intention of increasing the penalty and is therefore void. On the contrary, the Board of Review recognizes the fact that probably in most instances such order of the superior officer would not be subject to the criticisms made of the order in the instant case. The facts and circumstances which surround the giving of the order are of great importance in determining its purpose. The circumstances and conditions,under which Capt. Archer gave the order^inlnis case, were such, in the opinion of the Board of Review as to compel the conclusion that the order was given with the deliberate purpose of increasing the Fumskmart which might be imposed upon accused.
241103
5 ** CONFIDENTIAL
314
(268)	CONFIDENTIAL
"This conclusion is strengthened by Capt,
Archer’s obscure and uncertain testimony concerning the terms of the order itself and of the incidents surrounding the episode.
The Board of Review considers it highly desirable that its instant opinion be read and considered with the limitation herein set forth,"
The accused in the present case was taken before Lieut. Work by Sergt, Gainey pursuant to orders of S/S Ewings, Gainey thereby became a guard over accused. The Lieutenant directed the guard, Gainey, to return accused to the platoon and continue the drill.
Such order of the Lieutenant to the guard was the proper method-of directing accused's actions rather than giving the order directly to accused. However, when accused flaunted Gainey's authority it v/as the duty of the Lieutenant to see that it was respected. It was then that the officer gave the direct order to accused which he deliberately disobeyed. The accused was with the Lieutenant and Gainey ’during the entire episode. He heard the Lieutenant's order to' Gainey and he defied Gainey in the Lieutenant's presence,' The facts themselves refute the idea that the Lieutenant gave the order to accused in order to increase the punishment to which accused would subject himself for his misconduct. Rather, they display proper disciplinary control by the officer over a recalcitrant soldier. The circumstances and conditions under which the order was given accused clearly distinguish the instant case frein the Abrams and Bartlett cases.
In the opinion of the Board of Review the record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of Charge I and its Specification,
6.	Accused pleaded guilty to Specificationy'of Charge II,
The evidence is succinct and convincing that accused struck Gainey with his bayonet while Gainey was properly engaged in instructing accused in its use. It was an assault upon a non-commissioned officer who was then in the execution of his office. There was no provocation for accused's act. Gainey's method of demonstrating to accused his faulty stance was an ordinary method of instruction.
There is not even an'implication that Gainey used unusual or extraordinary force. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II. (CM 211978, Riddle: CM 211996,
Giddens: MCM. par.135a, p.1,49)*
7,	The evidence in support of Specification 2 of Charge II, . viz: threatening to strike S/S Ewings, a non-commissioned officer while the latter v/as in the execution of his office, is sketchy,
Ewings testified:	"I	ran	down to where they were and tried to get
hold of the rifle and he (meaning accused) swung at me". (Underscoring supplied) (R.6). Gainey testified: "Sergeant Ewings came up and
-6-	241103
CONFIDENTIAL	314
(269)
COKHOOSTIAL
he (meaning accused) cursed him. Sergeant Ewings got the rifle away from him about that time, and told me to take him to Lieutenant Work” (R.7)« Pvt. Vernon Johns, Co. "L", 118th Infantry, a witness for the prosecution was interrogated and testified as follows:
"Q - Did you see Private IJason hit Sergeant Gainey?
A - Yes Sir.
Q - Immediately after that did you see Private Mason attempt to strike Sergeant Ewings?
A - No Sir.
Q - He argued, but did not attempt to strike him?
A - No, Sir." (R.10).
The above is all of the evidence relevant to this particular issue.
It is apparent there is a conflict in the testimony of Ewings and Johns, while Gainey states that accused cursed Ewings, but is silent a3 to whether accused threatened to strike Ewings. The gravamen of the offense charged is found in the phrase "Any soldier *** who attempts or threatens to strike or assault *** a non-commissioned officer while in the execution of his office" (ATI 65).
"The part of the Article relating to assaults covers any unlawful violence against a warrant officer or a non-commissioned officer' in the execution of his office, whether such violence is merely threatened or is advanced in any degree toward application." (MCM., par.135a,
P.1A9).
There is- a very definite distinction between threatening to strike a person and attempting to strike a person. The former offense stops short of the overt act - a physical demonstration of force; the latter stops short of actually inflicting the battery upon the victim*
r
"The term 'threat* is very broad and indefinite including almost any kind of an expression of intention of one person to do an act against another. Ordinarily it signifies intention to do some sort of harm, and is a declaration of an intention or determination to injure another by the commission of some unlawful act A 'threat' in criminal lav; is a menace or declaration of one's purpose or intention to work injury to the person, property, or rights of another, with a view to restraining a person's freedom of action." (62 C.J., sec.l, p.932).
>
- 7
CONFIDENTIAL
241103
314
(270)
CONFIDENTIAL
"Threats may be communicated by signs or by actions as fully and thoroughly as by word of mouth*" (Armstrong v. Vicksburg etc. R. Co.,
16 Southern 468; 46 La. Ann, 1448).
"At common law, simple threats without intent thereby to influence the acts of the person threatened did not constitute a crime although sufficient to invoke security to keep the peace." (U.S. v. Mitzdorf, 252 Fed. 930, 937;
62 C.J., sec.2, p.932).
"An attempt to commit a crime consists of three elements; (l) The intent to commit the crime; (2) performance of some act toward the commission of the crime; and (3) the failure to consummate its commission. It is sometimes said that it is compounded of two elements; (l) The intent to commit it; and (2) a direct, ineffectual act done towards its commission; but it is obvious that the second element in the latter statement includes the second and third elements in the former.
A failure to consummate the crime is as much an element of an attempt to commit it as the intent and the performance of an overt act toward its commission. The elements necessary to constitute an attempt must coexist. No degree of intent will of itself suffice to constitute an indictable attempt to commit a crime, no matter how evil or malignant it may be; nor can an act alone constitute an attempt, no matter how well adapted it may be to effect a criminal result, unless coupled with an intent." (16 C.J., sec.92, p.113)*
"In order that there may be an attempt to commit a crime, whether statutory or at common law, there must be some overt act in part execution of the intent to commit the crime, but which falls short of the completed crime, the difference between attempt and commission being that the act or step fails to produce the result intended, *w*******************
Ko definite rule, applicable to all cases, can be laid down as to what constitute an overt act or acts tending to accomplish a particular crime. Each case must depend largely upon its particular facts and the inferences which the jury may reasonably draw therefrom. It is well settled, .however, that something more than
241103
- 8 -
314
The
(271)
CCMf !C£NT1AL
"mere preparation or planning is.essential, accused must take at least one step beyond preparation, by doing something directly moving toward and bringing him nearer the crime he intends to commit, ******** * * *■****• The act relied upon need not be an act which is ordinarily a part of the criminal transaction itself, but may be one which, although somewhat remote,.leads up to it.
iW V V V	-V- W V ¥
n A A " aw* /I A a n
Mere words are insufficient except in certain
Cases.	■iHHHHHHHHHHt
The term ’act', however, is to be liberally construed, and whenever the design of a person to commit crime is clearly shovm, slight acts done in furtherance of this design will constitute an attempt.
ITo violence, or wrongfulness except in the purpose need be present, and it has been held that the act needvnot possess any element of an assault. *****."
(16 C.J., sec.93, p. 113-114.-11$).
"To convict one of an attempt to commit a crime it is necessary to show that the overt act was done with the specific intent tooommit that particular crime. Such intent is essential,***" (16 C.J., sec.9A, p.115).
It is therefore manifest that the 65th Article of War creates an offense non-existent at Common Law by making it criminal for a soldier to threaten to strike a non-commissioned officer. Congress intended thereby to protect non-commissioned officers from threatened violence of a soldier which did not amount to an attempt. Mere application of profane or obscene epithets to a non-commissioned officer does not constitute a threat because the Article specifically ■and separately condemns the use of "threatening or insulting language". When the accused "cursed" Ewings and "argued" with him he was not making a threat. He was using "insulting language" but he is not charged with that offense. However, he did something more - he "swung" at Ewings. The record does not reveal whether accused used his fists or his rifle. From this aspect of the evidence it would appear that accused's conduct passed into the domain of an "attempt". However, the fact that accused also made an attempt to strike Ewings does not deny tha fact that the applying of profane or obscene language to Ewings plus the attempt to strike might easily constitute a most serious threat. ’While the dividing line between threats and attempts is a fine one depending almost entirely upon the commission of an overt act by accused in order to constitute the latter offense, it does not by any means follow that because an attempt is proved that such proof erases evidence that might also
24X103
CCSriDENTIAt	314
CONFIDENTIAL
prove a tjfreat, Care .and discrimination must be used in applying this doctrine. • Proof of a threat only Cannot sustain a conviction for an attempt. However, the proof of an attempt may include within its ambit, evidence that will sustain a charge of making a threat. This is essentially a question of fact for the Court.
While the evidence in this case is not as specific or sharply hewn as could have been developed by a few well chosen additional questions, there is sufficient evidence to sustain the Court's finding. Beyond that conclusion the Board of Review will not venture; otherwise it would be substituting its judgment and discretion for that of the Court.
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty of Specification 2 of Charge II.
3. Specification 3 of Charge II charges accused tinder the 65th Article of War of using the following insulting language towards Ewingss "Go fuck yourself, I won't do it", (hereinafter	'
designated "language charged"). The proof without contradiction shows that accused used the words:	"I	am	not	going	no God-damn
where" (hereinafter designated "language proved"). Such was Ewings testimony (R.6), and the Court found, by exception and substitution, that accused was guilty of using the "language proved" and not guilty of using the "language charged". There is, therefore, an apparent variance between the allegation and the proof, and the question is whether it is fatal to the finding.
"IThen certain abusive, insulting and vulgar language was alleged.to have been used, and the proof showed the language substantially by showing language having the same sense, there is no material variance." (Benson v.
State, 68 Alabama 544). (Cf: 13 C.J., sec.27, p.3225,0
"In a charge of slander 'a failure to prove all the words alleged' does not constitute a fatal variance, provided sufficient of the precise words alleged are proved so as to constitute a cause of action; the proof need not correspond in every minute particular with the words/laid, provided the identity of the charge is substantially made out.***" (37 C.J., sec.447, p.65).
-10 -	241103
CONFIDENTIAL.	314
(273)
"When the indictment avers words spoken as **** in the common law offense of oral blasphemy, it is enough if there is a .	substantial	accordance between the words as
laid and the wordImproved. Any portion.of the words laid, complete in itself and constituting an indictable offense, will sustain the indictment*. But any variance of the sense will be fatal." (2 'Wharton*s Criminal Evidence, sec.1082, p.1897).
The gravamen’ of the offense laid under Specification 3 of Charge II, is the use of insulting language to Staff Sergeant Ewings of the United States Army while in the execution of his office. The "language proved" was literally different from the-"language charged". The variance in the words, themselves, is extreme and radical. No phrase or clause of the "language charged" was proved. In substance and meaning the departure is wider. The language alleged in the Specification was pregnant with personal insult to Ewings. It bespoke disdain and' scorn of his authority and contempt of him as an individual. It is vulgar and obscene and is the language of the gutter. The "language proved" is expressive of a determination to disobey Ewing’s order. It was profane, provocative, and recalcitrant but carries no allusion, innuendo or implication casting aspersion on Ewings as an individual nor of his office.
There is "no substantial accordance between the words as laid and the words as proved." The sense of the "language proved" is far different from the sense of the "language charged".
The situation in the instant case is well illustrated in CM 126116 (reported in Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-1930, par.1521, p.752).
In the cited case the language actually proved to have been used by the accused towards, his superior officer and that laid in the Specification (which was charged to have constituted disrespectful behavior towards his superior officer under ATI 63) was obscene and vulgar. The language alleged was in substance the same as the "language charged" in the instant case omitting the sentence i "I won't do it". The language proved was: "Good men, good ——",
The Board of Review held that there was a fatal variance inasmuch as the language proved was "entirely consistent with respect," where'as the language charged was highly disrespectful to the officer.
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally insufficient to sustain the finding of guilty, by exception and substitution of Specification 3 of Charge II.
9.	The question of accused's mental responsibility for the offenses charged was placed in issue in. a timely and proper fanner by Defense Counsel. -The Court's response and action was in keeping
CONFIDENTIAL
- 11 -
241103
314
(274)
with expeditious and prompt administration of justice. The Court recessed after making its recommendation to the appointing authority for the appointment of a Board of Officers to examine accused for his sanity in accordance with par.35c, I.'CId 1928. (see paragraph 4, supra). Thereafter a Board was appointed arid made an examination and investigation of accused. Upon the reconvening of the Court, the report of the Board, upon agreement of the Trial Judge Advocate and Defense Counsel (R.15,l6) was admitted in evidence and was duly considered by the Court. Pertinent excerpts from the report (which is dated 1 Dec 1942) are as follows;
11 Brief Medical History:	This	25	yearH	old
Private, with 1-10/121s years of.service, has a family history showing no insanity, epilepsy, cancer or tuberculosis. Father and mother both evidently below average intelligence and two sisters of higher intelligence than patient."
"Social History:	In Reform School from 1933 to
1937 for general misconduct, no crimes. A.W.O.L. twice in Zone of Interior. Statement of several soldiers and one officer, who knew this soldier during maneuvers in Zone of Interior, was that this Private had struck several non-commissioned officers during that time."
"Mental Status:	Attitude	and General Behavior:
According to observation of attendants, this soldier has been getting along well since his admission to the hospital. He has not shown any special aptitude or abilities. No evidence of suicidal or homicidal tendencies. Appetite has been good and he sleeps v/ell.
Dress is untidy, shows no interest in neatness of self or habits. Does not appear to have been trained in any special lines of neatness.
Posture is fair. Seems relaxed at times, but when under stress he becomes quite agitated but no show of abnormal emotionalism.
Facial expression is appropriate.
Attitude - friendly and cooperative.
General mood - calm;
Motor activity - normal."
"Emotional Reaction:	Mood	is	appropriate	to
ideas, but probably is not as concerned about his present circumstances as he might be. Has difficulty in starting new things. Thinks he has a hot temper. Likes the evening better than morning. Says people tease him a lot. Has a good appetite and sleeps well. Thinks that life is worth living."
V/ V/ \f \y w v/ V V »> \' \/ V/
A n /> A n n A " A n n />
-V v \j «■> v v v ^ V w U V V A A A a A a a n R n A A n
- 12 -
CONFIDENTIAL
314
(275)
CONFIDENTIAL
"Mental Trend:	Ho	obsessions,	compulsions or
feelings of unreality. No delusions or persecutory trends.
No ideas of reference.
No hallucinations.”
1/	1/	V	i/	1/	U VV .UU V U V
* a A a A A A A ^ A A f> A
"Summary:	This	patient	is	one	who has not been
endowed with a high intelligence and has an I.Q, of somewhere around 70, with a mental age of approximately 12^- years. His reaction time is slow especially under stress. This would account for his inability to think of the consequences or of the moral obligation in a circumstance where his first impulse would be to strike someone for something that has perturhed him. In other words he would not think of the consequences or of another*s rights until after several minutes of thought trying to solve the problem. There is no evidence of psychosis. This soldier is well aware of his situation, realizes his misdeed, has gotten into the same sort of difficulty before. Spent four years in Reform School.
If he is guilty of a misdemeanor, his mental status is and has been normal and, therefore, he should draw proper punishment. However, the soldier does have belbw average intelligence, and individuals of his intelligence level react to abusiveness and quips more violently than individuals of higher.intelligence groups.
Findings:	After	careful	examination	of	the
patient and all records pertaining to the case, the Board finds:
1.	That the diagnosis is: Cental deficiency,
moron, mental age 12£ yrs.	j	*
2.	That mental condition of Frivate/C. Nason was the same at the time of his offense as at the time of the examination."
The members of the Board were Carl E. Fortune, Major, M.C., President and Louis I.'. Foltz, 1st Lieut., U.C., Recorder. The Report was approved by 3. S. Zintek, Lt. Colonel, K.C., Commanding. At the request of the Court, both Major Fortune and 1st Lieutenant Foltz appeared as witnesses. The relevant part of Major Fortune * s testimony is as follows:
241103
-13-
CONFIPtNTIAL
314
(276)
CUiiriutNTlAL
"Q. Major, have you had occasion, .to examine the accused for-sanity?
A. I did Sir.	•
Q, What were your findings?
A, We found him to be sane,- but of low mentality.
Q. Do you think he is capable of distinguishing right from wrong?
A. Yes Sir." (E.U)-.
- / .
"Questions by the defense:	*
Q, What would you say his mental age is?
A, His mental age is twelve and one half- years. Intelligence about seventy.
Q. Would he be classed as a moron?
A. Yes. He is below average in intelligence.
The army requires, under AR 105 a mental ability of above 10 years. So, he is near the lower level to meet array requirements.
Q. Do you think this man is responsible for his actions while excited?
A. He is responsible for his -actions, but the actions will be more violent than that of a person of higher intelligence. (R.14-).
"Q. Is there anything in your examination of the accused that wotild lead you to believe that he lacks mental capacity to understand the nature, in general, of the proceedings of the court?
A. Sir, his intelligence is below the normal level. I believe he should be able to understand the proceedings of the court.
Q. Do you feel that the accused is intelligent enough to conduct or cooperate in his defense?
A. I do believe he vrould be able to conduct his -own defense with someone to help him." (R.16).
1st Lieutenant Foltz testified in pertinent part as follows:
"Q. Do you feel that the accused knows right from wrong? ■
A. Yes Sir." (R.15).
"Q. Your statement that the accused knows right .from wrong, do you think that it should be classified to any particular extent?
'A, Yes, the average mental patient knows right from wrong and are'responsible for their acts 1 " Individuals who have low mental deficiencies possibly know rirht from wrong. Eutr>l««y.iise their low understanding, it is not tfear.all They are not aware to particular circumstances and most times react unfavorably.
- u - CONFIDENTIAL
314
"3
(277)
cr-noEiiriAL
. Do you feel that a moron is responsible for his actions?
A. Sir, I think' it would have to be judged by the circumstances under which the act took place. In other v/ords, if there was proper tins for an Individual to think out his act and mediatate upon it. I third: he would be responsible. (Underscoring supplied). (R.16).
At the conclusion of the testimony of Major Fortune and 1st Lieutenant Foltz the Court was closed and upon being opened the President announced that the Court had voted- on the question as to whether or not the accused was cane, and*that all members concurring, it had found him sane (K.17).
Attached to the record of trial is a written recommendation of the five members of the Court who participated throughout the trial as follows:
"1. Although the court found Pvt James C. Mason, 3A010A56, Co L, lloth Infantry sane, they do not . feel that his mental qualifications are sufficient to make him a satisfactory line soldier. They do not believe that the punisliment of this man will serve any useful purpose either to the individual or the government. However, they do not feel that he should be assigned to a combat unit and that this assignment was to a certain extent responsible for his actions. , The court feels that, had proper administrative procedure been enforced, this man would have been assigned to a Labor Battalion and would never have committed the offense of which he was found guilty.
"2. It is recommended that the accused be returned to the United States, that the sentence as imposed by the court be suspended and that he be assigned for duty in a service command for labor at one of the posts or cantonments."
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the issue of the mental condition,of the accused was properly determined by the court and that the mental responsibility of the accused is established by the record.
- 15 -
Cu'!F!DENTIAL
241103
314
(278)
For the reasons stated, the Board of Review holds that the record of trial.is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and its Specification and of Charge II and Specifications ‘1 and 2 thereof, but legally insufficient to support the findings, by substitutions and exceptions, of guilty of Specification 3 of Charge II, and is legally sufficient to support the sentence. The court was legally constituted. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial.
(DISSENTING OPINION)
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
- 16 -
CONFIDENTIAL
241103
314
(279)
CONFIDENTIAL
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review, ,ET0 314,
Z 6 MAR 1943
UNITED. STATES
v.
Private JAKES C. NASON (34010456) of Company "L", 118th Infantry,
)
)
1
EASTERN DEFENSE AREA UNITED STATES ARKY FORCES IN ICELAND.
Trial by G.C.K., convened at Camp Erossastadir, Iceland,
30 October 19A2, Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances and confinement at hard labor for two years. United States Disciplinary Barracks,
DISSENTING OPINION by RITER, Judge Advocate
1,	If the accused’s mental responsibility for his acts were sustained by the record of trial, I would be in accord with the views of the majority of the Board of Review in regard to the legal sufficiency of the record to sustain the finding of guilty of Charge I and its Specification and of Charge II and Specifications 1 and 2 thereof, I agree, also, that the record is legally insufficient to support the finding of guilty, by substitutions and exceptions, of Specification 3 of Charge II, I am unable, however,
vto agree with the majority of the Board of Review that the issue of accused’s mental responsibility was properly determined by the Court, and for this reason I must dissent from the conclusion that the record is legally sufficient to support the sentence.
2,	The majority opinion fairly and completely summarizes the evidence before the Court on the issue of accused’s mental responsibility, and the Count’s action thereon. Such summary is adopted for the purposes of this opinion.
3,	There are two separate rules to measure a person's legal responsibility for his acts. The first is designated the "right and wrong" theory and the same has been adopted by the great majority of the States. The other is designated "irresistible impulse" theory. The rules have been announced by the courts in variable
241103
m 4
(280)
language but the following statements may be accepted as fully comprehending and differentiating between the two rules:
"The general test of responsibility for crime may be stated to be the capacity to understand the nature.and consequences of the act charged and the ability to distinguish between right and wrong as to such act. Some of the courts hold that this is the only test of responsibility, while others, as shown infra § 61, hold that a man may be irresponsible because of an insane, irresistible impulse, although he knevr that the act was wrong.
bhile accused should apprehend the nature and quality of his act in order to be guilty, it is not essential to guilt that his mental condition be such as to enable him to realize the fullest extent of his act, and it has been said that the test is not' whether accused knew the gravity or seriousness of tho act he committed, but whether he knew the nature and quality of the act, and whether he knew that it was wrong. Some courts hold that knowledge of the nature and quality of the act refers to its physical nature and quality, and that knowledge that it is wrong refers to its moral side.
In determining whether accused has the capacity to distinguish between right and wrong, the inquiry must be addressed to his capacity in respect of the particular act involved, and the knowledge that the act is wrong should be a knowledge that it is wrong according to generally accepted moral standards, not knowledge that it is- wrong according to accused’s own individual standards, nor knowledge merely that the act is contrary to law, although there is authority supporting the view that knowledge that the act is punishable under the laws of the state is sufficient to support conviction. There is authority expressly condemning the rule of responsibility based on capacity to ’distinguish’ between right and wrong, and stating that the true test lies in the capacity to ’choose' between right and wrong, or in other words, that the test of 'irresponsible impulse' discussed infra § 61 is the only true test of criminal responsibility."
(22 O.J.S., sec.59* p.124-, 125).
CW!P£NTIAt
?41103
314
CONFIDENTIAL
(281)
"An ’irresistible impulse,’ as the term is used in the criminal law, may be defined as an impulse growing out of some mental' disease affecting the volition as distinguished from the perceptive powers, so that the person, affected, while able to understand the nature and consequences of his act and to perceive that it is wrong, in unable, because of such mental disease, to resist the impulse to do it,. This class of mental infirmity or insanity should be distinguished from emotional or moral insanity, considered infra in §§ 62 and 63 respectively.
There is a conflict of *the authorities as to whether or not one knowing the nature and quality of his act and also knowing that !it is wrong, .but who is unable to control his conduct, may properly be considered criminally responsible. In some jurisdictions the courts, when insanity is relied on as a defense, do not limit the test of responsibility to the mere capacity to distinguish between.right and wrong either generally or as to the particular act,.but go further than this and recognize that a person may know the nature and quality of an act which he does, and that it is wrong or contrary to law, and yet do ‘the act under the influence of 'an insane irresistible impulse; and it is held in these jurisdictions that, although there may have been a capacity to distinguish between right and wrong as to the particular aot, still the party is not responsible if the jury find that by reason of duress of mental disease he had so far -lost the power to choose between right and wrong as not to be able to avoid doing the act, so that his free agency was at the time destroyed. It has been said that the . insanity which absolves one from responsibility for acts otherwise criminal must be of a character causing the act and irresistibly compelling it, and it has been held that irresistible impulse affords the only true test of criminal responsibility, that mere ability to distinguish right from wrong is not the correct test where the defense of insanity is interposed, and that the degree oT insanity which will relieve one from responsibility for crime must be such as to create in his mind an uncontrollable influence robbing him of the .power to choose between right and wrong; but even in jurisdictions following
the mile of irresistible impulse, such impulse
-3
?41103
314
CONFIDENTIAL
(282)
CONRiJENTlAL
"must, to afford a defense, be insane in character, resulting from a diseased mind, and an alleged irresistible influence arising not from disease but from depravity or temper is insufficient to absolve its victim from criminal responsibility, as shown infra § 62. It has-been said that in determining whether accused suffered from an insane and uncontrollable impulse, the court should apply a general test applicable to the hypothetical average man, and not one gauged to the temperament of the particular accused, although such rule would seem open to the objection that, if the subject is in law insane, he is not an average man and, therefore, should not be tested by the standards of the average man but rather by standards applicable to reveal the sanity or insanity of the particular accused under investigation.
In other jurisdictions the courts have repudiated the rule of irresistible impulse, in some cases constrained by statutes expressly excluding such defense, and in others by statutes impliedly excluding such defense by a statutory definition of insanity or insane persons which leaves no room for the doctrine of irresistible impulse, and in jurisdictions taking this view, whether under statutory constraint or merely under the influence of judicial reasoning, an irresistible impulse, even though it is claimed to have been an insane impulse, does not exempt one from responsibility for crime, where his mental capacity was such that he had a knowledge of right and wrong as to the particular act. Even in these jurisdictions, however, where the irresistible impulse is the result of mental disease sufficient to override reason and judgment, and to obliterate the sense of right and wrong, it is a defense, for this brings the case within the knowledge of right and wrong test. There are authorities to the effect that the irresistible or uncontrollable impulse doctrine is unavailable unless such impulse springs from a mental disease or defect existing to such a high degree as to overmaster the will from delusion, or to overwhelm the reason, judgment, and conscience so as to obliterate the sense of right and wrong,"
(22 C.J.S., sec.61, p.126,127,128).
241103
314
(283)
CONFIDENTIAL
Reference is also made to 1 Wharton's Criminal Law sec.52, p.72, 73j sec.53, p.74,75j and 29 C.J., sec.13 and 14, p.1052,1053,1054-, for further discussion of the two rules for 'the determination of a person's sanity.
4.	Concomitant with the division of the authorities on the basic definition of legal insanity is also the sharp cleavage existing with respect^to the question of burden of proof. In a number of jurisdictions the defense has the burden of establishing the insanity of the accused at the time of the commission of the offense. (16 C.J., sec.1002, p.531,532;	22 C.J.S., sec.576,
p.888). In other jurisdictions the prosecution has the burden of proving beyond a Reasonable doubt the sanity of the accused. While in the absence of any evidence on the subject, or in absence of evidence raising a reasonable doubt as to sanity the presumption of sanity makes a prima facie case and satisfies, ' the burden of proof, making it unnecessary for the prosecution to introduce evidence in chief.of the defendants sanity. Whenever the question of accused's sanity is put in issue by facts coming from either side which raises a doubt as to the accused's sanity then it devolves upon the prosecution to establish his sanity.
(16 C.J., sec.1002, pi532j 22 C.J.S., sec.576, p.888).
The United States Supreme Court has adopted the latter rule. In Davis v. United States, 160 U.S. 469, 484-, 485, 486; 40 L.'Ed. 499, 504, 505, tlr. Justice Harland declared the rule to be as follows:
"Strictly speaking, the burden of proof, as those words- are understood in criminal law, is never upon the accused to establish his innocence or to disprove the facts necessary to establish the crime for which he is indicted. It is on the prosecution from the beginning to the end of the trial and applies to every element necessary to constitute the crime. Giving to the prosecution, where the defense is insanity, the benefit in the way of proof of the presumption in favor of sanity, the vital question from the time a plea of not guilty is entered until the return of the verdict is whether, upon all the evidence, by whatever side adduced, guilt is established beyond reasonable doubt. If the whole evidence, including that supplied by the presumption'of sanity, does not include beyond reasonable doubt the hypothesis of insanity, of which some proof is adduced, the aiccused is entitled to an acquittal of the specific offense charged. His guilt
5 -
241X03
314
CONFIDENTIAL
(284)
CONFIDENTIAL
”cannot be said to have been proved beyond - a reasonable doubt—his will and his acts cannot be-held to have joined in perpetrating the murder charged—if the jury, upon all the evidence, have a reasonable doubt whether he was legally capable of committing crime, or (which is the same thing) whether he wilfully, deliberately, unlawfully and of malice aforethought took the life of the deceased. As the crime of murder involves sufficient capacity .to distinguish between right and wrong, the legal interpretation of every verdict of guilty as charged is that the jury believed from all the evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused was guilty, and was therefore responsible, criminally, for his acts. How, then, upon principle or consistently with humanity can a verdict of guilty be properly returned if the jury entertain a reasonable doubt as to the existence of a fact which is essential to guilt, namely, the capacity in law of •the accused to commit that crime?”(4-0 L.Ed., p.505,506).
5. In respect to the test to be applied in determining the question of the sanity or insanity of an accused the United States Supreme Court has elected to follow the "irresistible impulse" rule. The study commences with the case of Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Terry, 82 U.S. 580, 21 L. Ed. 236, where the following language- was used:
"That form of insanity called impulsive insanity, by which the person is irresistibly impelled to the commission of an act, is recognized by.writers, on this subject. It is sometimes accompanied by delusions, and sometimes exists without them. The insanity may be patent in many ways, or it may be concealed. We speak of the impulses of persons of unsound mind. They are manifested in every form; breaking of windows, destruction of furniture, tearing of clothes, firing of houses, assaults, murders, and suicides. The cases are to be carefully distinguished from those where persons in the possession of their reasoning faculties are impelled by passion, merely, in the same direction."
X-X	Ktt
241102
314
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(235)
CONFIDENTIAL
"We hold the rule on the question before us to be this; If the assured, being in the possession of his ordinary reasoning faculties, from anger, pride, jealousy, or a desire to escape from the ills of life, intentionally takes his own life, the proviso attaches, and there can be no recovery. If the death is caused by the voluntary act of the assured, he knowing and intending that his death shall be the result of his act, but when his reasoning faculties are so far impaired that he is not able to understand the moral character, the general nature, consequences and effect of the act he is about to commit, or when he is impelled thereto by an insane impulse, which he has not the power to resist, such death is not within the contemplation of the parties to the contract, and the insurer is lieable." (21 L. Ed., p.241, 242.)
In Charter Oak Life Ins. Co. v. Rodel, 95 U.S. 232, 24 L. Ed.
433 stated:
"This charge is in the very words of the charge sanctioned and approved by this court in the case of Ins. Co. v. Terry, 15 Wall., 580, 21 L, Ed., 236, including an explanatory clause of the opinion of the court in that case. We see no reason to modify the views expressed by us on that occasion. We think, therefore, that there was no error in the charge as given. It follows that the judge properly refused the request to charge that the plaintiff could not recover if the insured knew that the act which, he committed would result in death, and deliberately did it for that purpose. Such knowledge and deliberation are entirely consistent with his being, in the language of the charge, impelled by an insane impulse, which the reason that was left him did not enable him to resist; and are, therefore, not conclusive as to his responsibility or power to control his actions." (24 L. Ed., p.435-436).
The court in Life Ins. Co. v. Broughton, 109 U.S., 121, 27 L. Ed. 878, followed the Terry and Rodel cases:
7 -
241103
CONFIDENTIAL
314
Cn,!nnENT!AL
"These instructions are in exact accordance with the adjudications in the cases of Terry and Rodel; and upon consideration we are unanimously of opinion that the rule so established is sounder in principle, as well as simpler in application, than that which makes the effect of the act of self-destruction, upon the interests of those for whose benefit the policy was made, to depend upon the very subtile and difficult question how far any exercise of the' will can be attributed to a man who is so unsound of mind that, while he foresees the physical consequences which will directly result from his act, he cannot understand its moral nature and character, nor in any just sense be said to know what it is that he is doing." (27 L. Ed., p.S82).
The Court in the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Akens,
150 U.S. 468, 37 L. Ed. 114.8, reaffirmed' the doctrine of the foregoing cases that if the assured "was impelled to the act by an insane impulse, which the reason that was left did not enable him to resist", he was legally insane.
The opinion in Davis v. United States, 165 U.S., 373,
4-1 L. Ed., 750, was written on appeal after the second trial. The judgment on the first trial had been reversed by the Court on the question of burden of proof (Davis v. U.S. supra). On the second trial the lower court's instructions concerning the test for insanity contained the following:
"The term 'insanity' as used in this defense means such a perverted and deranged condition of the mental and moral facilities as to render a person incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong, or unconscious at the time of the nature of the act he is committing, or where, though conscious of it and able to distinguish between right and wrong and know that the act is wrong, yet his will, by which I mean the governing power of his mind, has been otherwise than voluntarily so completely destroyed that his actions are not subject to it, but are beyond his control." (43- L.Ed.,p.754-)*
The Supreme Court approved the instruction.
In Ritter v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 169 U.S., 139, 42 L.Ed., 693, the Court held that the instructions of the Court in respect to insanity included, in substance, the element of "irresistible
- 8 -
C'JNflDENTIM.
c4*1°%14
KOTMUL
(2S7)
impulse” and thereby affirmed the doctrine.
Hotema v. United States, 186 U.S., 413, 46 L. Ed., 1225 involved a charge of murder. The defense was insanity and the trial court instructed the jury that the defendant could not be punished if his brain was "diseased to the extent that he was incapable of forming a criminal intent, and that the disease had so taken charge of his brain and had so impelled it that for the time being his will power, .judgment, reflection., and control of his mental faculties were Impaired so that the act done was an irresistible and uncontrollable impulse with him”, but that the defendant could be punished if "he did not perform the act because he was controlled by irresistible or uncontrollable impulses." (Underscoring supplied). The defendant's counsel objectedto the quoted part of the instruction, on the ground that he claimed that defendant was actuated by a delusion and that there was no evidence in the record to show that the defendant acted under an "irresistible impulse." The court said:
"As there is no portion of the evidence returned in the bill of exceptions, we are unable to judge whether there was any which would justify or which did justify, the court in submitting the question of irresistible impulse to the jury. If there had been evidence on that subject, the submission of the question was certainly as ^fair to the defendant as he could ask. T/e decide nothing further than that."
(Under-scoring supplied).
6. The foregoing pronouncements of legal authorities and the decisions of the Federal Supreme Court create a background against which the provision of the tlanual for Courts-Martial with respect to mental responsibility should be read. The Manual has defined mental irresponsibility and has applied the rule as to reasonable doubt within the field of military justice as follows:
»**-**»,
The rule as to reasonable doubt extends to every element of the offense. **#*9 Prima facie proof of an element of an offense does not preclude the existence of a reasonable doubt with respect to such element.
The court may decide, for instance, that the prima facie evidence presented does not outweigh the presumption of' innocence.
Y/here a reasonable doubt exists as to the mental responsibility of an accused for an
- 9 -
INTIAL
24110:
14
(288)
CONFIDENTIAL
“offense charged, the accused can not legally be convicted of that offense. A person is not mentally responsible for an offense unless he was at the time so far free from mental defect, disease, or derangement as to be able concerning the particular acts charged both to distinguish right from wrong AND TO ADHERE TO THE RIGHT. ****,"
(Capitals and underscoring, supplied).
(Li.C.M., par,78, p.63).
Obviously, the Manual has adopted the rule of.the first Davis case cited afore with respect to the burden of proof# It has placed on the prosecution the duty ‘of proving the sanity of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt. Failing to remove all reasonable doubt as to the accused* s mental responsibility for his conduct the prosecution’s case must fail.
The determination of the question as to whether the "irresistible impulse" rule prevails in the administration of military justice resolves itself into an interpretation of the above quoted declaration from the Manual. The Manual's definition of mental irresponsibility commences with the statement that "a person is not mentally responsible for an offense unless he was at the time so far free from mental defect, disease, or derangement as to be able concerning the particular acts charged both ^“distinguish right from wrong" and then there is added the significant phrase "and to adhere to the right". It, therefore, appears that before an accused, on trial beforp a Court-Martial can be adjudged responsible for his acts, in a case where his sanity is in issue, that the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that (l) the accused was able to distinguish between right and wrong and (2) he is able to adhere to the right. If there exists in the minds of the court a reasonable doubt as to the accused's mental capacity to distinguish between right and wrong it must find accused insane. ' Likewise if a reasonable doubt exists as to accused's ability to adhere to the right, even though he be able to distinguish between right and wrong, the Court must find him insane. Both elements must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt before an accused may be held responsible for his acts. The ability to distinguish between right and wrong is not sufficient. Although accused may possess capacity to know that his action is wrong he must possess power to refrain from the performance of the wrongful act and " adhere to the right",	This
construction is both reasonable and logical in view of the presence of the word: "both" (following the word "charged") as an introduction to the first prepositional phrase:	"to	distinguish
right from wrong" and the use of the conjunctive "and" to connect
241103
- 10 -
CONFIDENTIAL
314
(289)
COMriC'-NTIAL
the first prepositional phrase with the second one: "to adhere to the right."
7.	Having concluded that the Manual’s test for insanity is a compound of two elements of proof, which the prosecution must sustain beyond a reasonable doubt, a subsidiary question arises as to whether the phrase "and to adhere to the right" is an equivalent method of expression of the "irresistible impulse" rule as approved by the United States Supreme Court. Webster’s New International Dictionary (2nd Ed.) defines "adhere":	"to	stick	fast or c]eave;
*** to become joined or united; to hold, be attached, or devoted, to remain fixed, either by personal union or by conformity of faith, principle, opinion or practice." Synonyms are: "stick, cling, cleaye or hold". Bouvier’s Law Dictionary shows that the participle "adhering" is derived from the Latin adhaerere. meaning "to cling". Allowing the verbal phrase "to adhere" its usual and ordinary meaning, it seems, beyond doubt, that the Manual is referring to an accused’s mental ability to remain conformable to or loyal to principles of right conduct, when it speaks of his ability "to adhere to the right". If a person possesses the ability to "cling" or "cleave" to the ideas and principles of right conduct he certainly "adheres" to it, and by adhering to it he reacts as a normal law abiding person does under a similar situation - he refrains from committing a wrongful act. Oppositely, if, with conscious knowledge that his conduct is wrong, but because his brain is diseased he cannot refrain from committing a wrongful act - then he certainly acts under an "irresistible impulse".
It therefore appears that the Manual has adopted the "irresistible impulse" test for insanity in the administration of military justice.
Such conclusion is confirmed by Winthrop:
"Insanity is a disease so perverting the reason or moral sense or both as to render a person not accountable for his acts.
*KX***K*XXXX>Bt
To constitute a defence on the ground of insanity it may be made to appear, on the one hand either that the accused, in committing the offence, did not, from mental derangement, comprehend the nature of what he was doing, or did not know that he was doing wrong; or, on the other hand. that, though aware of the nature and consequence of his act, as well as of its wrongfulness or its illegality, he was promoted by such an uncontrollable impulse as not to be a free afrent." (Underscoring supplied).' (Winthrop1s Military Law and Precedents, 2nd Ed, Reprint 1920, p.29A). ?
_ n _ CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
8* The function and authority of the Board of Review, sitting in appellate review in the instant case, is a relevant consideration:
"In the discharge of its statutory function, the Board's duty is ***#*, not to weigh the evidence, not to substitute its opinion as to the guilt of accused for that of the court and the reviewing authority, not to let its sympathy for the unfortunate accused run away with its judgment, but solely to -
-determine whether 'there is some substantial evidence tending to prove each element of each offense.' " (CM 211586, Gerber).
"In his indorsement on the holding of the Board of Review in CM 203511, Wedmore. the conclusions of which indorsement were approved by the President, the Judge Advocate General said*
'The court and the reviewing authority must be satisfied of the guilt of an accused beyond a reasonable doubt. However, the Board of Review and The Judge Advocate General in the examination of records of trial, except in cases which require approval or confirmation of the sentence by the President, do not weigh the testimony v to determine whether the offense has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt, but must be satisfied that there is some substantial evidence tending to prove each element of each offense (CM 152797, Veins)****: «
"In the exercise of its judicial power of appellate review, the Board of Review treats ' the findings below as presumptively correct . and examines the record of trial to determine whether they are supported in all essentials by substantial evidence. To constitute itself a trier of fact on appellate review, and to determine the probative sufficiency of the testimony in a record of trial by the trial court standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt would be a plain usurpation of-power and frustrative of justice. CM 192609,
Rehearing (1930)." (Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.408(4), p.259).
Under the above authorities it is the duty and responsibility of the Board of Review to determine from the record whether there is some substantial evidence tending to prove that accused was sane
- 41103
314
-12 - r^ENTlW-
f
■NT1AL
(291)
within the rule governing mental responsibility laid down in the Manual for Courts-Martial. The Report of the Board, convened under the provision of par. 35c, MCM. 1928, found accused free from obsessions, compulsions, feelings of unreality, delusions, persecutory trends, ideas of reference and hallucinations. He presented no evidence of*psychosis.	Both members of the Board
personally testified that accused, in their opinion, was capable of distinguishing right from wrong. The senior member of the board expressed the opinion that he was sane. The Report further declares:	"If he is guilty of a misdemeanor, his mental status is
and has been normal, and, therefore, he should draw proper punishment."
9.	Were the foregoing facts the complete evidence as to accused’s mental condition, the finding of the Court on the question of sanity would be sustained without contradiction or doubt.
However, the Report of the Board and the testimony of its members present other facts which cannot be ignored by the Board of Review,
10.	The authority and duty of the Court in passing upon the issue of accused's sanity is a pertinent consideration. The following decisions of the Board of Review are authoritative on the subject:
"In a prosecution for involuntary manslaughter the defense raised the point that the accused was not of sufficient intelligence to exercise the care that the circumstances required, and, therefore, could not be guilty of criminal negligence. The division psychiatrist testified that he had examined the accused, and that the latter was 'a degenerate of a low grade mind, and would be classed as a moron,' a person next above the grade of imbeciles. Assuming, what is by no means clear, that a person possessing the grade of intelligence thus described is incapable of crime, Or of gross negligence, the court was not bound to accept as facts what the psychiatrist said. The accused was himself a witness and gave a very clear and intelligible account of the shooting. The court had an opportunity to hear and observe him and was justified in forming its own conclusions as to his mental capacity.
The court would not have been open to adverse criticism if it had acquitted him, but its finding of guilty is warranted by the evidence.
CM 125265. (1918)." (Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-194-0, par.395(36), p.225).
- 13 -
^ x i r < VfWiU.i
1DENTIAL
241103
314
(292)
"A board of medical officers reported that the accused was not wholly responsible for the wrongful act of which he was accused, and that he did not have the necessary criminal mind to commit the act charged. This report was substantiated by the testimony of a member of the board. The evidence introduced by the prosecution did not tend to refute the finding of the board, but rather -tended to substantiate its correctness. It is the function of the court to consider the report of the board and accord to it that weight and credence to which, in the judgment of the court, it may be entitled; and, since the report of the board supported by other evidence was unimpeached by the prosecution, it was prima facie proof of mental derangement and the court could not entirely disregard such evidence. (CM 116694^ By the introduction of this evidence a reasonable doubt was raised as to the mental capacity of the accused to commit the wrongful act charged, and it v/as incumbent upon the prosecution to prove that the accused was capable of entertaining the necessary intent*
Such proof failing, the findings should be set aside. CM 128252 (1918)." (Dig. Ops. JAG.,1912-1940, par.395(36), p.225-226).
"Where the question of accused's mental capacity at the time of the commission of the alleged offenses becomes an issue in the trial, the report of the medical board must be responsive to that issue. CM 135243 (1919)." (Dig. Ops. JAG.,1912-1940, par.395(36), p.226).
"Where there was no substantial evidence of insanity, the presumption of sanity contemplated in paragraph 63 and 112, M.C.M., was operative, and it v/as not necessary to introduce in evidence the finding of a medical board appointed on request of defense, counsel in order to enable the court to dispose of the question of the mental condition of the accused. The court is empowered to constitute itself the judge of the extent to which the burden of inquiring into mental condition is imposed upon it. CM 193543 (1930)." (Dig.Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, par.395(36), p.227).
241103
- H -
CONFIDENTIAL
314
(293)
CONFIDENTIAL
"Where upon trial for murder (A.W. 92) insanity was raised as a defense and the findings of a medical board and testimony of medical witnesses supported this contention, it was held that while this evidence may not be disregarded it was not binding upon the court nor upon the Board of Review when there is other evidence, including testimony of a medical officer, which negatives several of the basic premises of the medical board and witnesses in support thereof. The Board of Review found the record of trial legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. CM 204790 (1936)." (Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-194-Om par.395(36), p.227).
The Report of the psychiatric board states accused "is not endowed with a high intelligence, and has an I.Q. of somewhere around 70, with a mental age of approximately 12J- years. His reaction time is slow especially under stress. This would account for his inability to think of the consequences or of the' moral obligation in a circumstance where his first impulse would be to strike some one for something that had perturbed him.. In other words he would not think of the consequences or of another's rights until several minutes of thought trying to solve the problem. **** However. the soldier does have below average intelligence, and individuals of his intelligence level react to abusiveness and quips more violently than individuals of higher intelligence groups." (Underscoring supplied). The Board by its findings diagnosed accused's case as one of "Mental deficiency, moron, mental age 12? years" (Underscoring supplied) and stated that accused's mental condition "was the same at the time of his offense as at the time of the examination."
Major Fortune's testimony confirmed the report and stated that the "army requires, under AR 105, a mental ability above ten years, so he is near the lower level to meet army requirements; that he is responsible for his actions, but the actions will be more violent than of a person of higher intelligence" (R.14-) and that he believed accused "should be able to understand the proceedings of the court", and that "he would be able to conduct his own defense with some one to help him" (R.16).
1st Lieutenant Foltz agreed that accused knew right from wrong, but qualified this statement by stating! "Individuals who have low mental deficiencies possibly know right from wrong. But because of their low understanding, it is not normal. They are not aware.to particular circumstances and most times react unfavorably." (R.16). He was asked the question:	"Do	you	feel	that a moron is
241103
314
'	CONFIDENTIAL
responsible for his actions?* His answer wasi. "Sir, X think it would have to be judged by circumstances under which the act took place. In other words, if there were a proper time for an individual
to think out his act and meditate upon It. I think he would be responsible.1* (Underscoring supplied) (R.16).
Manifestly the evidence as above set forth presents the, accused as a low class moron - a mental deficient - with a mental age of approximately IZjr years and whose reaction time is slow. When irritated or-jannoyed his mental processes do not permit him to visualize the results of his actions upon other persons or things nor sense the result of his actions. "His first impulse would be to strike someone for something that perturbed him". His reactions are.more violent than those of individuals of higher intelligence. -His action in striking Gainey with his bayonet is exactly the type of anti-social conduct as would be expected. Opposed to this evidence is the statements of the medical experts who conclude that he was "sane"; was suffering from no psychosis at the time of the commission of the offenses for which he is charged and was ahe to distinguish between right and wrong.
It is plainly apparent that immediately following an episode that annoys or affronts him, accused has no power of control over his actions and no ability "to think of the consequences or of the moral obligation" involved in his conduct. It is only after lapse of time he is able to think of such consequences or of other persons rights. Accused is a feeble-minded person whose acts of violence cannot be controlled by himself on the occasion and at the time of conflict or disagreement. Is not this mental defect the exact'type indicated by M.C.M., par.78, p.63 with respect to mental responsibility? The answer must be in the affirmative. His actions are the result of "uncontrollable impulse", and for the period immediately involved in a conflict he cannot "adhere to the right".
11.	The writer of this opinion is keenly aware of the fact that it is not the function of the Board of Review nor is it authorized to venture into the field of the pschiatrist and attempt to differentiate between an "insane" person and a "feeble-minded" subject. The experts declare that accused is not "insane", but the record of trial shows that he is a mental deficient who reacts violently, at times, because of his inability to "adhere to the right" and thereby control his impulses. In determining the mental responsibility cf a oerson to be punished for his crimes the law considers feeble minded persons or 'persons suffering from original mental defects in the same class as persons suffering from insanity, disease of the mind or delusion.
"Feeble minded person is subject to the same general rules of criminal responsibility as an insane person". (22 C.J.S., sec.36, p.120).
- 16 -
buhl' idwN i 1AL
241103
314
(295)
co:.n3tHTUL
"As insane persons, may be mentioned *** persons afflicted with idiocy or amentia, the former being congenital, the latter consisting of a loss of mental power and mania". (1 Wharton’s Criminal Law (12th Ed) sec.62, p.88).
"■**** We observe that, upon principle, the rule as-to the burden of proof in criminal cases cannot be materially different, where the defense is insanity, disease of the mind or delusion, from the rule obtaining where the defense is an original defect and want of capacity. (Davis v. United States,
160 U.S., 468, 40 L.Ed., 499, 504).
In this connection, it should be noted that the excerpt from the Manual for Courts-Martial above quoted uses the terms of "mental responsibility", "mentally responsible", "mental defect, disease, or derangement." These are words of wider connotation than the terms "insanity" and "insane". They embrace all forms of mental affliction, impairment and deficiency.
12.	In the administration of military justice it, therefore, may be concluded that the responsibility of a feeble minded subject, such as accused, is determined by the application of the same rules as are applied to a person who is suffering from disease of the mind, viz:' insanity. In the instant case there is presented unequivocal evidence that in spite of the fact that accused was able to distinguish right from wrong he committed the acts charged under "uncontrollable impulses", which did not permit him "to adhere to the right". The test for mental responsibility as specified in the Manual was, therefore, not met. One of the basic elements in the proof is missing - the ability to "adhere to the right". The pfoof shows that the accused is not a person "in the possession of (his) reasoning faculties (who was) impelled by passion, merely" (Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Terry, supra)
in the commission of the offenses, but that he committed the offenses charged as a direct consequence of original, inherent defects in his mentality which did not enable him to "adhere to the right".
13.	This conclusion is consistent with the testimony of the experts and their report, wherein they declare accused has the power to distinguish between right and wrong and that he was sane. Such evidence sustains the first element of "mental responsibility" as stated in the Manual, to wit, the power to distinguish between right and wrong. The statement that he was sane is a conclusion of the experts resulting from the fulfilment of this first element of the test, and were this element the only basis of measuring mental responsibility there would have been nothing for the Board of Review to consider on this aspect of the case. However, both the experts and the Court mistakenly ignored the second element, to wit, the
'“I,
ability to "adhere to the right", in drawings their conclusions.
Not only is there no substantial evidence to prove accused’s ability to "adhere to right" but affirmatively it is shown that he wholly lacked such ability when annoyed, irritated or disturbed in his social relationships. The prosecution failed to sustain the burden of proof imposed upon it to prove the mental responsibility of accused beyond a reasonable doubt.
For the foregoing reasons I am of the opinion that the Court committed prejudicial error in finding that accused was mentally, and therefore legally, responsible for the offenses committed by him.
L4. Although the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of all the Charges and Specifications except Specification 3 of Charge II and is also legally sufficient to support the sentence, had the accused been mentally responsible for his actions, it is my considered opinion that because accused's mental irresponsibility is affirmatively established by the evidence, that the record is legally insufficient to support the findings and the sentence.
Judge Advocate.
241103
r. a >!
r j
- 18 -
314
26 Mar 1943
CONFIDENTIAL
(297)
1st I«d,
BID, ETO Branch - JAGO.
TO:	Commanding	General, Eastern Defense*Area, APO 612*
1, In the case of Private James C, Mason (34010456),
Company L, 118th Infantry, your attention is invited to the copy of the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty by substitutions and exceptions of Specification 3 of Charge II, but legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and its Specification and of Charge II and Specifications 1 and 2 thereof, and legally sufficient to support the sentence, which holding, for the reasons therein stated, is hereby approved. Since the offense involved in Specification 3 of Charge II and the findings on such Specification is of a minor nature, involves np moral turpitude, and does not affect the civil status of the accused; and since the record has been found legally sufficient to support the sentence, under the policy directed by the Secretary of War in his approval of the opinion of The Judge Advocate General of 13 April 1923 ( 250,404 Review 4-19-23), no further action in this case is required.
Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations,
?41103
CONFIDENTIAL
314

#(299)
