#(27)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 113A
UNITED . ST.ATES.	)
)
v.	)
First lieutenant JOHN T.	|
SCARBOROUGH (0-AA777A), Chaplain ) Corps, 5th General Hospital,	)
formerly 392nd Engineers, and	)
Technician Fourth Grade ROBERT J. ) ROUHIER (35259153), 1st Group	)
Regulating Station.	.)
20	JAN 1944
SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLT, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.U., convened at Taunton, Somerset, England,
19 November 19A3. Sentence: SCARBOROUGH to be dismissed the service, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for two years: United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania; ROUHIER, dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for two years: The Federal Reformatory, Chilllcothe, Ohio.
. HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the cases of the officer and soldier above named has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused were tried upon the following charges and specifications:
SCARBOROUGH
'	I	w
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that 1st Lieutenant John T.
Scarborough, Chaplain's Corp, 5th General Hospital did at Bourne Hill Green, Wiltshire, England on or about 26 September 19A3, commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection per OS with T/A Robert J. Rouhier, an enlisted man in the Army of the United States.
- 1 -
'	'	ROUHIER.
CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	T/4	Robert	J.	Rouhier,
1st Group Regulating Station, TC, Southern •Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, did, at Bourne Hill Green, Wiltshire, England on or about 26 September 1943 comiiiit the crime of sodomy by feloniously and against the order of nature permit 1st Lieutenant John T.
Scarborough, Chaplain’s Corp, 5th General.
Hospital, to have carnal connection per os -	.	with the said T/4 Robert J. Rouhier, an
enlisted man.
Each pleaded guilty to and was found guilty of the respective Charge and Specification against him. No evidence of previous convictions was" introduced. Lieutenant Scarborough was sentenced to be dismissed the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for a period of two years. Technician Fourth Grade Rouhier was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to'forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for a period of two years. The reviewing authority approved the sentences. He forwarded the record of trial as to Lieutenant Scarborough for action under Article of War 4&; he designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record of trial as to Technician Fourth Grade Rouhier for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50§-. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence of Lieutenant Scarborough, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and withheld the order directing the execution thereof pursuant to Article of War 50j.	.
3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the.record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.
* •
4.	The charge sheet shows that the accused Scarborough is 36 years and 11 months of age. He was commissioned 21 April 1942;
The accused, Rouhier, is 23 years of age. He was inducted 3 January 1943, no previous service.
5.	The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement of Lieutenant Scarborough and the'
' / ■ - ;
(29)
designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chilllcothe, Ohio as the place of confinement of Technician Fourth Grade Rouhier are correct (WD, Circular #291, 10 November 194-3, pars, 3a and 3b),
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
v	Advocate
- 3 -
1st Ind,
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with EIOUSA. 2 0 JAN 1944 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.	.	'
1.	In the case of First Lieutenant JOHN T. SCARBOROUGH (0-447774), Chaplain Corps, 5th General Hospital, formerly 392nd Engineers, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of"War 50£, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence,
2.	Attention is invited to the newly announced policy of the War Department in cases of this kind, (WD, Cir. #3> 3 January 1944)> copy inclosed. This policy is effective immediately and applies to pending cases. This officer has already been examined by a medical board, and his resignation for the good of the service, dated 19 October 1943 is with the record of trial.
3.	Please advise this office of the action finally taken. The file number of the record in this office is ETQ 1134.
■Brigadier General, United States Army,
Assistant Judge Advocate General.
. *,
2	Inc Is:*
Incl.l Record of triad.	(
. Incl.2 Copy of	W.D.1944
(So muhh of sentence of Lieutenant Scarborough as involves total • forfeitures and confinement for two years remitted. As thus modified sentence ordered executed. GCMO 4, ETO, 29 Jan 1944) 1
1
(31)
istyind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.
2 0 JAN 1944
TOj Commanding
Officer, Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA,, APO 519, U.S. Army,(through the Commanding General, EIO),
*
1.	In the case of Technician Fourth Grade ROBERT J. ROUHHH (35259153), 1st Group Regulating Station, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of. War 50£, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	Attention is invited to the newly announced policy of the War Department in cases of this kind (WD, Cir. #3, 3 January 1944), copy inclosed. This policy is effective immediately and applies to nending cases. Accused has already been examined by a medical board which recommended his discharge under the provisions of section VIII, AR 615-360, 26 November 1942.
3.	This holding is forwarded with that in the case of Lieutenant Scarborough so that action in the two cases may be co-ordinated.
4.	Please advise this office of the action finally taken. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1134*
E. U. UCttElli,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
2 Inclst 1 - Board of Review,
ETO 113'- 20 'Jah
2 - Copy of Cir. #3, W.D. 19.
1 -

#(33)
