#(197)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General . •-	with the
European Theater'of Operations APO 871
BQABD OF REVIEW ETO 1302
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
Warrant Officer (Junior Grade) . ) JAMES A. SPIAIN (W-2110264), on j detached service with Head- ) quarters General Depot G-35,	)
from Headquarters 244th Quarter- ) master Battalion (Service).	)
)
31 MAR 1944
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPFU, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Sea Mills Camp, Bristol, England,
10-11 December 1943. Sentence: Dismissal, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the warrant officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and specifications:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	93rd Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	Warrant Officer, Junior
Grade, James A. Splain, Headquarters General Depot G-35, did, at Bristol, Bristol, England, on or about 31 August 1943, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his own use thirty seven (37) pounds, three (3) shillings, six (6) pence, lawful money of the United Kingdom,, and of an exchange value of about one hundred fifty (150) dollars, property 6f Staff Sergeant William L. Riggsbee,
Detachment nBrt, 329th Quartermaster Depot Company, entrusted to him by the said Serg-'eant Riggsbee.
1
(198)
Specification 2 s In that * * * did; at Bristol, Bristol, England, on or about 1 October 194-3, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his own use forty-nine (4-9) pounds eleven (ll) shillings, four (4.) pence, lawful money of the United Kingdom and of an exchange value of about two hundred (200) . dollars, property of Private First Class Paul ff. Shores, Det. "B", 329th Quartermaster Depot Company entrusted to him- by said Private Shores.	■
Specification 3* In that * * *. did, at Bristol, Bristol, England, on or about 1 June- 1943, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his own use forty-five (45) pounds lawful money of the United Kingdom and of an exchange value of about one hundred eighty-one (181) dollars, and fifty-seven (57) cents, and one hundred twenty (120)' dollars, lawful money of the United States, total amount of about three hundred one (301) dollars, and , fifty-seven cents, property of Technician Fourth Grade Anthony (NLH) Angelo, Detachment "A", £nd Special Service Company entrusted to - him by the said Technician Fourth Grade Angelo
Specification 4* In that * * * did, at Bristol, Bristol, England, on or about 1 August 1943, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his own use forty-five (45) pounds lawful money, of the United Kingdom and of an exchange value of about one hundred eighty • one (181) dollars and fifty-seven cents, property of the Baby Adoption,Fund Headquarters General Depot G-35, entrusted to him by Major Artie G. Needham for said adoption fund.
Specification 5* In that * * * did, at Bristol, Bristol, England, on or about 1 August 1943, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his own use one (l) pound and ten (10) shillings lawful money of the United Kingdom and of an exchange value of about six (6) dollars and four (4) cents, property of the Baby Adoption Fund Detachment nB", 329th Quartermaster Depot Company, entrusted to him by 1st It., Bernard J. Warshauer, for said adoption fund.
- 2 -
(199)
Specification 6:	In	that	* * * did, at Bristol,
Bristol, England, on or about 2 March 194-3, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his own use eighteen (18) pounds, six (6) shillings-eleven (ll) pence lawful money of the United Kingdom and of an exchange value of about seventy-four (74-) dollars , and-four (4) cents, property of the Company Fund Detachment "3" 329th Quartermaster Depot Company entrusted to him by 1st Lt., Bernard J. Warshauer for said fund.
Specification 7s . In that * * * did, at Bristol,
Bristol, England, on or about 15 September 194.3, feloniously embezzle, by fraudulently converting to his own use, forty (40) pounds thirteen (13) shillings lawful money of the.
United Kingdom and of an exchange value of about one hundred sixty four (I64) dollars and two (2) cents, property of Enlisted Mens'
Dance Fund, .Detachment "B", 329th Quartermaster Depot Company entrusted to him by First Sergeant Barney H. Davidson for said., fund.
He pleaded not guilty to and/found guilty of the Charge and all specifications. IIo evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was ■ sentenced to be "dismissed" the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to b e come due and to be confined at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for five years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place .of confinement, and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50jf.
3.	Accused was personnel adjutant of General Depot G-35, located at Bedminster Camp, Bristol, England, from about 17 March to 15 October 194-3. His duties included tho custody and administration of unit records; the processing of soldiers' deposits and payments of money made by military personnel for transmission to the United States (R6).
In addition to other duties he was required to take and hold the physical possession of British currency and coinage representing several funds as follows:	Company Fluid of Detachment "B", 329th Quartermaster
Depot Company; Baby Adoption Fund of that unit; Baby Adoption Fund of General Depot G-35; and Enlisted Mens' Dance Fluid of the post (R6). Separate envelopes contained each cash fund. None of these funds constituted Government property, the ownership of each rested collectively in the various contributors. These funds came under accused's care in his capacity as personnel adjutant (R6,8,14,15,21,22).	Suspicions .as to
irregularities in his financial transactions resulted in a search of his locked field desk where the money evidencing the four funds was kept bj^ him, but the money was not in the desk (R6,47,6l).
- 3 -
The Enlisted Mens' Dance Fund and the'Company Fund of Detachment "B", 329th Quartermaster Depot Company were repaid by him (Pros.Exs.l and 2). Jhe evidence relating to funds, paid over to accused by soldiers Riggsbee,-Shores and Angelo (Specifications 1, 2 and 3) is'undisputed. Accused received same and did not make disposition of the moneys, in the' cases of Riggsbee and Shores, as required by Circular #49, of the Chief of Finance, Hqs. ETOUSA, 17 July 1943, and in the case of Angelo as required by AR 35-2600' (R29,31,32,38). Repayments thereof, were accomplished by accused through others upon his directions (R30,31,3^,50; Pros.Exs.5,6,9, 10,11).
All of such reimbursements occurred after he had been relieved of his former duty, placed under restraint and subsequent to discovery of his shortages (R12,44,47). It is undisputed that the funds used by accused for the purpose, of effecting reimbursement were'his private funds received by him, after discovery of his irregularity, and no part of_same was the original money deposited or placed with him.
*
4.	(a) Pros.Exs.4 and 8 would provide most damaging evidence against
accused were it not for the fact that they were written by him while he was under restraint and coincident with the time his commanding officer (exact date not proven) said to him*
,	"You	had	better	know and want to get this .
thing straightened up. ' I have given you Considerable leniency and I can give you a. status other than confinement, and if you don't give us reasons for the shortages, I will probably remove some of that leniency." (R49).	>
In view of the atmosphere of compulsion and pressure thus apparent, the Board of Review will not consider' such exhibits in determining the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the findings of guilt. The same treatment will be accorded Pros.Ex.10, inasmuch as it wa3 executed during the same period. Their prejudicial effect, if any, upon the rights of accused will be considered subsequent to the discussion of questions involving the substance of the offenses.
(b) Evidence that accused arranged for repayment of the funds to the three soldiers and of the Enlisted Mens' Dance Fund and the Company Fund represents a type of evidence ordinarily introduced by an accused charged with embezzlement outhe question of fraudulent intent or in mitigation of punishment (20 C.J., sec.50,_pp.455-456j 29 C.J.S., sec.25b, pp.702-703). In the instant case such evidence appeared as part of prosecution's case in chief. It is difficult to discover its prejudicial effect upon accused's rights unless the same be considered as an admission by accused that he did in fact receive the various funds and acknowledged his responsibility for same. .Upon such hypothesis the evidence of repayment was certainly admissible as admission by conduct (22 C.J., sec.353, p.317; 31 C.J.S., sec.291, p.1053; CM 123492 (1918), Dig.Op.JAG, 1912-1940, sec.451(17), p.317).
- 4 -
(201)
(c)	Accused's answers to questions propounded by an officer of, the Inspector General's Department (R51-53) were simple admissions against interest and not confessions, and their admissibility Is manifest (CM ET0 292, Mickles:	CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al; CM ETO 895, Davis et al).
5.. Accused's lengthy unsworn statement (R63-71) is the only evidence offered by the defense. It is involved, rambling and unconvincing. Its probative value either as a defense to the charges or as bearing on the severity of the punishment was exclusively a matter for the court (CM ETO 132, Kelly and Hyde:	CM ETO 527, Astrella).	‘
6. By the 93rd Article of War, Congress directs: ‘
"Any person subject to military law who commits * * * embezzlement * * * shall be punished as a court-martial may direct."
Embezzlement is not an offense at the Common Lawj it is solely of statutory origin and existence '(2 Wharton's Crim. Law - 12th Ed., - sec.1258, p.1574; 14 W. & P. Perm., pp.257-258)i	In denouncing the crime,of "embezzlement"
when committed by persons subject to military law. Congress did not define the offense, but simply denounced a crime by that name.
i	i
When Congress uses words in a statute which have acquired a well understood meaning, it is presumed they were used in that sense unless the contrary appears (The Abbotsford v. Johnson, 98 U.S, 449, 25 L.Ed., 168).
"The use of a word which has generally received, a certain construction raises a presumption . that Congress used it * * * with that meaning, and it devolves on the one claiming any other construction to show sufficient reasons for ascribing to Congress an intent to use it in • such sense." (Northern Pacific Railroad Company v. Musser - Sauntry Land, Logging & Mfg. Co.,
168 U.S. 604,608; 42 L.Ed., 596,598).
(Cf: Central Union Trust Co. of New York v. Edwards, Internal Revenue Collector, 287 Fed. (2nd Cir.) 324, cert, denied 262 U.S. 744, 67 L.Ed., 1211, error dismissed 266 U.S. 579, 69 L.Ed,,.451).
The 93rd Article of War was part of the Act of June 4, 1920 (41 Stat. 805; 10 U.S.C. 1565). At that time there was no provision of the Federal Penal Code of general application defining the crime of embezzlement. Congress had however, in legislating for the District of Columbia, enacted a statute with respect to this offense, which in pertinent part was as follows:
"If any agent * * * of a private person * * * shall wrongfully convert to his own use * * * anything of value which shall come into his possession or under his care by virtue of his
5
employment or office, whether the thing so converted be the property of his master or employer or that of any other person, * * * he shall be guilty of embezzlement * * *."
(Act Mar 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1325 ch 854, sec.
834; Act Mar 3, 1913, 37 Stat. 727, ch 107, sec.851a).
Prior to enactment of the 93rd Article of War the Supreme Court in Moore v. United States,(160 U.S. 268,40.L.Ed.,,422) had defined the crime of embezzlement thus: _	_	_	.
"Embezzlement is the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom such.property has been intrusted or into whose hands it has ■ lawfully come. It differs from larceny in the fact that the original taking of the property was lawful or with the consent of the owner, while in larceny the felonious intent must have existed at the time of the taking." (160 U.S. 269-270, 40 L.Ed., p.424).
The same high court had in Grin v. Shine. 187 U.S. 181,189,195, 47 L.Ed.', 130,136,138, made the following pronouncement:	...
"Equally unfounded is it that the complaint is defective because it does not use the word 'fraudulently,' the allegation being 'that the accused wrongfully, unlawfully, and feloniously appropriated said money.'
As the word 'embezzled' itself implies fraudulent conduct on the part of the person receiving the money, the addition of the word 'fraudulent' would not enlarge or restrict its signification. Indeed, it is impossible for a person to embezzle the money of another without committing a fraud upon him. The definition of the word 'embezzlement' is given by Bouvier as 'the fraudulent appropriation to one’s own use of the money or goods intrusted to one's care by another.' * * *.
We do not care to inquire into the soundness of the distinction made in some of the ‘older cases betvjeen the custody and possession of property, because under the section above quoted nothing more is necessary to constitute embezzlement than that the party charged should have the control or care of of the money."
- 6 -
(203)
On ZA November 1919 the Circuit Court of Appeals (8th Cir.) decided the case of Schell v. United States (261 Fed. 593). Schell was indicted 'under Section 47 of 'the Penal Code (Act Mar A, 1909, c 321, 35 Stat. 1097) which provided in pertinent part:
"Whoever shall embezzle * * * moneys * * * of the United States shall be fined. * * *".
As to the particular question now involved, the court wrote:
"It will be noted that the statute itself does not define the crime of embezzlement." (261 Fed. 595).
The court then quoted the above statement from the Moore case, and continued:
"Having in mind the employment of this defendant in the mint and the character of ’ his duties,, with the facts and circumstances appearing in the record, the jury was justified in finding that the defendant came into the possession and custody of these coins lawfully, and that he took coins from the larger quantity thus coming under his control, and that,'therefore, there was:
(1)	A breach of trust or duty in respect to the coins in question, which belonged to the government of the United States;
(2)	That he wrongfully appropriated the same
.	to	his own use.
Counsel for defendant finally contends that, upon the facts as they appear on record here, the defendant had nothing more than the bare custody, as distinguished from the possession, of the coins in question, and therefore could not and did not embezzle them, but stole them." (261 Fed. p.595).
After setting out the excerpt from Grin v. Shine last above quoted, the opinion concludes:
■There is substantial testimony to sustain the verdict of the jury that the defendant was an employ4 of the United States to whom these coins, alleged to have been embezzled, were intrusted, that they lawfully came into his hands by virtue of his employment, and that they were thereafter converted to his own use, in violation of this statute of the United States." (261 Fed. p.595).
- 7 -
• It is thus apparent that.when Congress (being the same legislative branch of the same sovereign that adopted Section 851a of the District of Columbia Code, supra, and Section 47 of the Act of Mar 4, 1909, supra) enacted the 93rd Article of War the words "embezzlement" and "embezzle" possessed well defined juridical meanings. It is entirely proper to assume that Congress adopted such meaning when it denounced the crime of "embezzlement" in the 93rd Article of War.
It should be carefully noted, however, that reference is made to the embezzlement provisions of the District of Columbia Code,to the Act of March 4, 1909, and to the court decisions solely for the purpose of determining the meaning which Congress intended to give the word "embezzlement" in.the 93rd Article of War. Such statutes and judicial decisions are legitimate sources from which Congressional intention may be gathered (See authorities above cited). Where a person, subject .to military jurisdiction, is charged with "embezzlement", he is charged with the crime of "embezzlement" denounced by the 93rd Article of War, and he is not charged with nor is he tried for an offense under the District of Columbia Code or any other statute of Congress.	!
7.	The meaning of the word "embezzlement" contained in the 93rd Article of War having been thus ascertained, it is necessary for the solution of the problems arising in the instant case to consider certain legal principles announced in the holdings and opinions of The Judge Advocate General and Board of Review.
(a) There is a well established presumption that a steward of property of others has unlawfully converted it to his oval use if he cannot or does no't account for it or deliver it when accounting or delivery is required by the owners or others possessing authority to demand same. The burden is then on the steward to go forward with the proof of legitimate expenditure or loss of same. The explanatory evidence when balanced against proof of possession by the steward and failure to account or deliver the property on demand, creates an issue of fact for final resolution by the court, . Failing to make an explanation, a conviction of guilt may re3t upon the facts of possession, absence of accounting or delivery and _
.the presumption arising from same.
\
"An officer in charge of trust funds who fails to respond with them or account for them when they are called for by proper authority cannot complain if the natural presumption that he has made away with them outweighs any uncorroborated explanation he may make, especially if his explanation is inadequate and conflicting. The return of the amount of. the fund post litem motam is of no probative value, except as an admission that he was responsible -for it. It does not tend either to negative or to excuse the offense charged.
C.M. 123492 (1918)." (Dig.0p.JAG, 1912-1940, sec.451(17), p.317).
- 8 -
(205)
’’Any adult man who receives large' sums' from others for which he is responsible and accountable, who wholly fails either to account for or to turn them over when his stewardship terminates, cannot complain if the natural presumption that he has spent them outweighs any explanation he may give, however plausible, uncorroborated by other evidence. C.M. 123488 (1918); 203849 (1935)." (Dig.Op.JAG, 1912-1940, sec.451(17), p.317).
"Accused was found guilty of embezzlement in violation of A. W.~ 93. He received money due 'the officers’’ club in his capacity*of clUb' officer," and there was a considerable shortage when an audit was made,' The evidence showed that he was a poor accountant, that he intermingled club funds with his personal funds, that he had been in debt, and that he was contemplating the purchase of an automobile. Although other persons also knew the combination of the safe where club funds were kept, there was no indication that any funds had been wrongfully taken. Heidi The record is legaily sufficient to support the findings and sentence. The accused received money entrusted to his care and he failed to account for it. The logical inference of misappropriation is justified by the evidence. C.M. 234153 (1943)." (Bull. JAG, Vol.II, No.9, Sep 1943, sec.45l(l7), P.341).
"Accused was found guilty of embezzlement in violation of A. Tf. 93. He was the war bond officer of his organization. On pay day he received several hundred dollars from enlisted men for the purchase of war bonds and stamps. It was contemplated that 'the purchases would be made as soon as possible; and it was shown that the bond office at the camp was open and ready to deliver bonds on j the days immediately following his receipt of the money. The accused did not make any attempt to return the money or obtain the bonds or stamps until he was approached by the soldiers. Restitution was made two months later. At the trial, accused contended that he lost the money in a dice game the next night and that he was too drunk to realize what he was doing. However, he did remember
- 9 -
the details of his action on that night in considerable detail. Held.: The record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence. E<yen if the court did accept his unsupported story that he had lost the money in a dice game, this use of ' funds involved •such a reckless,disregard of his trust as would warrant an inference of fraud. The court was justified in rejecting his contention that he was too drunk to entertain any intent to defraud. The accused’s later evasive conduct was wholly inconsistent with innocence. CM 237192 (1943)." (Bull.
JAG, Tol.II, No.10, Oct 1943, sec.451(19), pp.382-383).
(b) The old doctrine that when a person holds the ncustody” only of property as distinguished from ’’possession" of it, his wrongful and unauthorized conversion of it constitutes the crime of larceny and not embezzlement has been modified in the Congressional definition of the crime of "embezzlement" as denounced by the 93rd Article of War, Under the current doctrine proof that accused had converted property under his care and control obviates the necessity of 'determining whether he had possession or merely custody,
"An Army pistol was issued to a soldier for use on guard duty. While on guard duty he deserted, taking the pistol with him, and remained absent in desertion until apprehended, six months later. On the question whether the offense proyed constitutes embezzlement or larceny, Held, That the testimony presented at the trial clearly sustains the charge and conviction of embezzlement as that offense is defined by the Supreme Court of the United States, in '	.	the'case of'Moore v. United States, 160
U.S. 268,269-270, and Grin v. Shine, 187 U.S. 181,195-196. * * * CM 193485 (1932)."
(Dig.Op.JAG, 1912-1940, sec.452(3), p.335).
"In the administration of criminal justice by the federal tribunals, in recent years we find the old 'theory of constructive taking in larceny giving way to the more workable doctrine of the modern landmark cases of Moore v, U.S. and Grin v. Shine, supra, which fix the elements of embezzlement and which, in effect, obliterate any distinction between bare custody and possession on the part of the offender as £ requisite of embezzlement.
Illustrative cases are Schell v. U.S., 261 Fed. 593,595; Cooper v. U.S., 30 F. (2d),
10 -
(207)
567,568; 'We inhandler v. U.S., 20 F. (2d),
359,361, On the authority of all these cases, and to simplify the whole process of adjudication of cases of fraudulent appropriation of property whether fn the custody or the possession of the offender, it may be affirmed as a fact of law that whenever the property of another passes into the custody or the possession of him to whom it is entrusted or lawfully delivered and who fraudulently appropriates . the same, not manifesting the. intent to do so when the property is received by him, such fraudulent appropriation is punishable as embezzlement within the contemplation of that offense as denounced in Article of War 93. See hereon CM H8528 (Jacobs); 155621 (Drezner); 170613 (Williams); 193195 (Cavanaugh); 195772 (Y/ipprecht); 196960 .
(Anderson); and the consonant exposition of 'Embezzlement* ip paragraph 119 h, Manual for Courts-Martial," (CM 197396, Christopher).
(c) The fact that an accused, who has converted property entrusted to his care, intended to return the property or even has made complete restitution of same is no defense.
"The act of a custodian of company funds in borrowing them for even temporary personal use constitutes the offense of embezzlement.
The fraudulent conversion which is the essence of the offense of embezzlement, exists in such case despite the fact that accused may have intended .to return the money. CM 192530 (1930)." (Dig.0p.JAG,, 1912-' 1910, sec.117(18), p.317).
The above doctrine rests securely upon this well established principle:
"Repayment or restitution of money or property embezzled, after the completion of the crime, will constitute no defense to a prosecution for the embezzlement, and a subsequent settlement with the prosecuting ■ witness or an arrangement between the employee and employer for the refunding of the money embezzled, will not constitute a defense to a prosecution for the cdme charged."
(2 Wharton's Crim. Law - 12th Ed., sec.1316, pp.1628-1629).
- 11 -
• The Board of Review sitting in ETOUSA is, cognizant, of the fact that portions of the above1 quotation from CM 197396, Christopher, were called into question by the Board of Review (sitting in Washington) in the , subsequent approved opinion in CM 211810, Houston in the following language:
"The Board has carefully examined the cases cited and does not think that they justify so sweeping, so revolutionary a statement as that they obliterate the distinction, drawn for generations in scores of authoritative .text books and hundreds' of opinions between custody and possession. The Board furthermore thinks that statement was not required for the decision in the Christopher case and must be considered as. dictum."
The opinion in the Houston case received the concurrence of The Judge Advocate General on 10 August 1939. On 17 August 1939, the Board of Review (consisting of the same officers who wrote the opinion in the Houston case)' released its opinion in CM 211900, Edwards. Chi 7 No.vember 1939,
The Judge Advocate General dissented from the views of the Board of Review in the Edwards case. It is believed desirable to quote at length from the indorsement of The Judge Advocate General:
"The evidence shows that accused, 'first cook >	on	duty* (R.ll) in the mess of his organiza-
tion (R.6), was 'in charge' of the kitchen and store3 therein, during the absence of the . mess sergeant (R.ll) and along with other books weis 'entrusted' with bacon issued to the mess and 'had keys'to everything' (R.10).
The mess sergeant having discovered an apparent shortage in bacon, a search was mEide whereupon a slab of the issued bacon was found in accused's personal locker. Accused later removed the bacon to a bsirracks bag (R.13,1A)« In response to a question as to why he had taken the bacon he stated that he 'needed it for himself' (R.14).
The Board of Review interprets the evidence as f silling short of establishing that accused had possession of the property at the time of his appropriation of it, but as showing only that he had access to the property. Its opinion that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of embezzlement is based upon this interpretation of the facts, and a legal premise that embezzlement-as denounced by the
- 12
(209)
Articles of War may be accomplished only if the offender at the time of the fraudulent appropriation has possession of the property. The board cites as precedents for its views an approved opinion in CM 211810.. Houston. > and an approved holding in CM^206567,	,
Sneeden. et al. In ny opinion the evidence shows that accused not only had access to the property but that the property had been intrusted to him and had lawfully come into his hands, I believe that his fraudulent appropriation of the property tinder such circumstances amounted to a breach of trust and constituted embezzlement as that offense is defined by the Manual for Courts-Martial and by the-Federal civil courts.
Paragraph 14-9 h of the Manual for Courts-Martial defines the offense of embezzlement denounced by Article of War 93, as follows: •Embezzlement is the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom it has been intrusted or into whose hands it has lawfully come, (Moore v, U.S., 160 U.S. 268.)
The gist of the offense is a breach of trust. The trust is one arising from some fiduciary relationship existing between the owner and the person converting the' property, and springing from an agreement, expressed or implied, or arising by operation of law. The offense exists only where.
.;the property has been taken or received by virtue of such relationship.'	>	•	-	•
It is enough that the property comes lawfully into the hands of the offender under circumstances which make his conversion a breach of trust. There is no requirement that control of the property by the offender shall be of any greater degree or that such control amount to possession within the meaning of that term as defined by the Manual in relation to larceny as 'the present right and power absolutely to control a thing* (par.l49g> Manual for Courts-Martial).
The definition quoted appears in substantially the same language in a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States in Moore v. United States (16Q U.S. 268,269), The language of • the Moore case was quoted with approval by the same court in Grin v. Shine (187 U.S. 181,196),
13
(210)
and by a United States Circuit Court of Appeals in Schell v. United States- (261 Fed. 593,595).
In Cooper v. United States (30 Fed. (2d) 567). and Weinhandler v. United States (20 Fed. (2d) 359), the principle involved in the definition was applied. The Board of Review, with the approval of one of my predecessors, applying this definition and' citing precedents of this office, has expressed the view that distinctions between possession and custody are immaterial in embezzlement cases.
The circumstances that larceny may be committed by a servant or other person with respect to property lawfully placed in his custody, the owner retaining legal possession (see par,149g, Llanual for Courts-LIartial; CM 206567, Sneeden. et al). does not mean that fraudulent appropriation of the property, may not also amount to embezzlement if there be a breach of trust by the person to whom the property has been intrusted or into whose hands it has lawfully come. It is element- • ary that a particular act or omission may result in the commission of two or more distinct offenses if all the elements of two or more such offenses are present,.
I.iy views as herein expressed do not involve a conclusion that there is no legal distinction between embezzlement and larceny. Larceny involve gfe. trespass against the owner's possession within the meaning of the term as laid down in paragraph 119g. Manual for Courts-Martial; embezzlement involves some degree of lawful control and a breach of trust. In many cases the facts are such that the proper classification of the particular mideed as larceny or embezzlement is manifest. There is a very considerable field in which classification is difficult and in which error in differentiation may be fatal.
In view of this practical but highly technical difficulty, I recommended by memorandum to The Adjutant General, dated October 21, 1939, an amendment of Article of War 37 to provide, in effect, that misdescription of an offense as embezzlement when it is larceny or vice versa, may be treated as harmless.
In its opinion the Board of Review relies primarily on CL 211810, Houston, a case in which the board, with my concurrence, expressed the
- 11 -
, (211)
view that the accused did not have rightful custody or possession of the property found to have been embezzled and that he was not intrusted with it. The board concluded that accused had access only to the property and that his offense was not embezzlement. My concurrence in that conclusion and my recommendation that the findings and sentence be vacated are not to be construed as involving the view that embezzlement may be committed only with respect to property of which the offender has possession as distinguished from lawful custody.”	.	.	.
The Secretary of War adopted the views of The Judge Advocate General by action dated 11 December 1939.	_
Without indulging in a speculative discussion as to tie distinc- 1 tions between the facts of the Christopher. Houston and Edwards cases and thereby attempting to reconcile the opinions it is obvious that the basic principle of the Christopher case has not been impugned. Rather it appears that it has been reinforced by the approval of the Secretary of War of the dissent of The Judge Advocate General in the Edwards case. When proper consideration is given to the judicial and legislative background of the term "embezzlement" in the 93rd Article of War and then setting against it the full weight of the principle asserted in the Houston case, it appears to the Board of Review (sitting.in ETOtJSA) that the doctrine announced in Grin v. Shine:	i
> *
"Nothing more is necessary to constitute em-‘	bezzlement	than	that	the	party charged should
have the control or. care of the money"	1
4	'	♦
is unquestionably the rule which must govern military courts-in their deliberations and to such doctrine this Board of Review gives its unqualified assent. This conclusion received extremely satisfactory confirmation in Henry v. United States (DC App). 273 Fed. 330, (decided 2 May 1921; Cert, denied 257 U.S. 640, 66 L.Ed., All) wherein the court cited Calkins v. State, 18 Ohio St. 366^ 98 Ara.Dec.121 and quoted with approval the following from the note to this case:
"The phrase 'under his care' will cover property merely in his custody, and therefore, under such a statute, it.is immaterial whether he receives possession of the property from a third person or from his master; for in either case the property is under his care, and if he converts it he is guilty of embezzlement?
>
Commenting further on the situation presented in the Henry case the court said:
/
/
- 15 -
"Even if we admit that Henry had only the custody of the certificates, and that their possession was in the Helmuses, whose agent he was at the time of the conversion, it would make no difference,' because they were certainly 'under his care.1" (p.334).
It is recognized that cases will arise where the question as to whether the accused had the "care and control" of the property will be a cogent and pertinent issue. However, in the instant case the determination of accused's guilt does not turn on any such narrow issue.
8.	Riggsoee (Specification l) and Shores (Specification 2) delivered > their respective private funds in actual currency and coins to accused for transmittal to designated persons in the United States and accused received the same pursuant to authority of Finance Circular Letter No.49 Office of the Chief Finance Officer, Hqs., ETOUSA, 17 July 1943. Angelo, likewise delivered his funds in the form of currency and coins to accused (Specification 3) as a "soldiers' deposit" under AR 35-2600. As to Riggsbee's and Shores' funds accused was under duty to cause the same to be transmitted in accordance with the directions of the Chief Finance Officer, ETOUSA., Accused was obligated to make disposition of Angelo's deposit in accordance with the mandates of the cited Army Regulations.
The prosecution's proof is convincing beyond all reasonable doubt that accused did not even commence the processing of Riggsbee's and Shores' funds so that the designated persons in the United States would receive the same and wholly disregarded established procedure as to Angelo's "soldiers' deposit". None of the said funds were ever covered into the Treasury of the United States, It is clear beyond contradiction that accused converted the same to his own use while they were under his control. • Under the most orthodox definition of the crime of embezzlement there can be no doubt as to accused's malfeasance with respect to Riggsbee's, Shores' and Angelo's property (2 Uharton's Crim. Law - 12th Ed - sec.1258, p.1568). The conviction of accused of embezzlement of the Riggsbee (Specification l). Shores (Specification 2) and Angelo (Specification 3) funds would alone support his sentence were he an enlisted man (MCM, 1928, par.lG^c, p.99).
Accused received the Baby Adoption Fund of Headquarters General Depot G-35 (Specification A), the Baby Adoption Fund of Detachment B, 329th Quartermaster Depot Company (Specification 5) and the Enlisted Mens' Dance Fund, Detachment B, 329th Quartermaster Depot Company (Specification 7) for safe-keeping only. There is not a scintilla of evidence that he had any authority to use, disburse or expend all or any part of same. He was bound to returrethe organizations or their agents the specific funds entrusted to him. The funds were in the form of British currency and coins. The record supplies no direct evidence or inferences of accused's authority tc change even the form of the funds described in (Specifications J+, 5 and 7) or to use the same for his own benefit or satisfaction.
- 16 -
(213)
As to the Company Fund of Detachment B, 329th Quartermaster Depot Company (Specification 6) it is true that under AR 210-50, 29 Dec 19A2, sec.I, par.5a(l) the Detachment Commander was the lawful custodian thereof, but it is proved that for safe-keeping purposes only he placed the actual money representing the fund under the care and control of accused (R25).
It was first placed in the safe located in the office where accused was employed and thereafter removed by him to his field desk (R13). The evidence is clear and convincing beyond all doubt that he actually received and took into his physical control the money representing the company fund.
The fact the proof shows that the Enlisted Mens' Dance Fund (Specification 7) was not the exclusive property of Detachment B, 329th Quartermaster Depot Company, as alleged, but was the property of all of the enlisted personnel of Bedminster Camp (R12) was an immaterial variance in the proof (20 C.J., sec.75> p.ASO, footnote 13b). It also is apparent that accused knew exactly the property to which reference was made in the specification. In his unsworn statement he declared:
"I had a desk drawer which I kept * * * the Enlisted Ken's Dance Fund which was nothing but a common ordinary slush fund.
The dance fund was nothing but a slush fund and was never of the 329th. It was the Enlisted Men's.Dance Fund made from the proceeds of beer1' (R68-69).
Furthermore, with respect to embezzlement it makes "no difference in whom the title to the property rests, provided it is not in accused. It is immaterial that the ownership of the property involved is in one or two or more persons." (29 C.J.S., sec.8, p.677).	•	■	•	•
There can be but one conclusion concerning accused's defalcations in respect to the several funds described in Specifications A, 5> 6 and 7.
He certainly had the "care and control of the money". . He certainly did not own any of the fluids. He certainly had no authority to use or expend them. There is not a shadow of a doubt but what he converted each of the' fluids to his own use and benefit. Under such state of the evidence the findings of guilty were not only proper but they, were the only findings possible.
The Board of Review has considered the question of accused's guilt without reference to Pros.Exs. A, 8 and 10 because of the questionable circumstances under which they were obtained. The conversion of the moneys _ entrusted to his care is proved by evidence which stands uncontradicted in the record. Accused's unsworn statement is in truth a confession and avoidance. He does not deny his misuse of the funds; rather he attempts to explain that he was a victim of circumstances that made it necessary for him to convert to hi3 own use the property of other persons. Manifestly his explanation, even giving it some quality of truth affords no justification for his conduct. Under such circumstances these questionable exhibits could not have prejudiced any of his substantial rights. Assuming that the exhibits are in law confessions and assuming further that they were improperly secured, the Board of Review is of the opinion that their admission
- 17* *•
(214)	.
in evidence did not injuriously affect the substantial, rights of accused and that such irregularity is within the purview of the 37th Article of War.
7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 25 years of. age, that he was appointed Warrant Officer. (Junior Grade) 14 March 1943, and that he has had five years prior enlisted service. However, at the trial he claimed an additional three years enlisted.service. '	.	.
8.	The court was legally "constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and the offenses. Np errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence. However, a warrant officer is "dishonorably discharged" - not "dismissed" (SPJGJ, 1943/13066, 5 Oct 1943, Bull.JAG, Vol.II, No.10, Oct 1943, sec.408(2), p.380). The Table of Maximum Punishments does not apply, inasmuch as accused is not an enlisted man (MCM, 1928,* par.l04a, p.95). Under the District of Columbia Code, the crime of embezzlement is punishable by confinement in a penitentiary where the sentence is more than one year (District of Columbia Code, sec.22-1202 (6:76), sec. 24-201 (6:40l)). Confinement in the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio is therefore authorized (AW 42; Cir. 291, WD, 10 Nov 1943> sec.V, par.2a(l) and 3a).
' Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
- 18 -
1st Ind
(215)
TO, Branch Offica TJAG., with ETOUSA. 3 ^ MR 1944	TO:	Commanding
Officer, Western Base Section, ETOUSA, APO 515, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Warrant Officer (Junior Grade) JAMES A. SPLAIN (W-2110264), on detached service with Headquarters General Depot G-35 from Headquarters 244th Quartermaster Battalion (Service), attention is invited, to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of triad, is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	A warrant officer is not a "commissioned officer". Consequently, he is "dishonorably discharged" - not "dismissed". However, with respect to warrant officers' the terms are equivalent (SPJGJ 1943/13066, 5 Oct 1943, Bull.JAG, Vol.II, No.10, Oct 1943, sec.408(2), p.380).
3. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1302. For convenience of reference please place that number in‘ brackets at the end of the order; (ETO 1302).
4. Pursuant to the request of the Staff Judge Advocate, Western Base Section, Services of Supply, ETOUSA, the record of trial is returned herewith. When it has served its purpose it should be returned to this office.
C. McNEIL,
Brigadier1 General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.—
1 Incl:
Re cord
- 1 -
t
#(217)
