#(205)
the Office of The Judge Advocct.r<? General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review
ETO 139.
UNITED STATES	)
)
v.	)
george McDaniels (34292415)	)
Private, Co. W, 28th	)
Quartermaster Truck Regiment.	)
1,2 DEC 1942
SERVICES OF SUPPLI, ET0USA.
TRIAL by G.C.M. convened at Victoria Barracks, Belfast, N.I., 2 November 1942. Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances and confinement for five years. Federal Reformatory.
HOLDING by the BOARD of REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification.
CHARGE:	Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In that Private GEORGE JfcDANIELS,
iCompany "Gn, 28th Quartermaster Regiment, did, iat Antrim, Northern Ireland, on or about ;30 September 1942, with intent to do him bodily Harm, commit an assault upon Corporal Theodore B, Janusz by shooting him in the side of the body with a dangerous weapon, to-wit: a rifle.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for five years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement but directed the execution of the sentence to be withheld and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 50^.
3.	On 30 September 1942, accused was a member of Company "G",
28th Quartermaster Truck Regiment stationed with Company "E" of the same regiment at Lough Road Camp about one mile from the town of Antrim,
Northern Ireland. The record fails to disclose the origin of the circumstances giving rise to the Charge herein but about nine o'clock of the night of that day, Captain Edgar H. Frederic, commanding officer of the Company "G" with other officers and men of both Co."E" and Co."Gn
139
> “lor*1 t i •
\ -. ■; r rj : * .■ -.r\U
(206)
were in the Mess Hall at the Camp where a picture show was about to begin. Right at the beginning of the show one of the men returned from town and said that one of the soldiers had been shot and that three other men were detained by the Military Police, one of which detained men had told "another colored soldier to 'Go back to camp and get the men' " (R.7,10)« One of the men detained was Staff Sergeant Horton ^of Company "G" (R.K))* Lieutenant Lehmann of the 28th Quartermaster Regiment and another officer proceeded towards Antrim in a jeep and on the edge of town came upon the body of a colored soldier. An K.P. Sergeant was standing near the body. Realizing the seriousness of the situation they decided to return to camp and lock the ammunition room in the Nissen hut occupied as the company commander's quarters (R.14). There was considerable excitement at camp, but the ammunition case was secured and the door locked. Just as the Lieutenant reached the door of the hut to leave, it was pushed open and three men ran past him. Some 12 or 15 men were present, who were "mumbling" such as, "Get the M.Ps", "Get Sergeant Horton back". The Lieutenant was threatened by one of the men. Corporal Baynem, that if he did not leave his life would be in danger. He told them to stay away from the ammunition but being "scared" as they all had rifles, he left them and went to tell Captain Frederic what was going on (R.15). He did not recognize any of the men other than Baynem. On the way to town, the Lieutenant heard several shots and while he was at the Military Police headquarters, someone came to the door and said another soldier had been shot (R.15). He found the wounded soldier, Janusz, in the cellar room of a civilian house at about 10:15 - 10:20, about five minutes after hearing the shots fired. The night was dark. When the Lieutenant returned to camp he found the door to the hut had been broken in and the ammunition case was gone (R.18).
Jimmie Lee Gay and Charles M. Willis, two soldiers of Company "G", 28th Quartermaster Regiment testified they were at the show in the mess hall "when a fellow comes in-from town and says Jenkins got shot" and the boys went out and got their rifles and broke a door open in the officers quarters and Sergeant Baynem (Corporal Baynem) took the ammunition and they went towards town. On the way they met the Captain (Frederic) in a jeep and were told to go back to camp, everything was going to be all right and that Jenkins was in the hospital. However, one of them said for the Captain to go back but that they were all going to town. When they reached the bridge between the camp and the town of Antrim, they encountered white soldiers returning to their camp. Two white soldiers came along with two girls and were stopped and one of them was knocked down by one of the group. Later one white soldier came along by himself. He said he was a soldier, but was also stopped and knocked down by the same colored soldier. "The white soldier got up and was running when McDaniels shot him and said ' I got him - I got him' " • "We stayed around a little while and then went back to camp". Private Willis testified in part as follows:
- 2 -
CO^nnrwTiAi
235ffflg
139
(207)
c
UilN ! mu ■
Q. You say you saw Guest get the white soldier and knock him down. Then what happened?
A. After he got hit he got up and ran and McDaniels shot at him.
Q. Where were you standing.
A. I was there (Witness Illustrates with hands) and Guest was out on t’ie road. Guest knocked him down with his rifle and his rifle hit me on the chin and it got in my helmet strap.
Q. Did you see McDaniels level down on him?
A. Yes sir.
Q. How far away from McDaniels were you when he fired that shot? Were you as far as from me to you? That is roughly about five feet.
A. Yes sir. (R.32-33).
It was dark and other shots were fired up in the air but not at exactly this time (R.38). Private Gay's story was substantially the same:
Q. Was McDaniels there at the time?
A. Yes. Before we got to town the white soldier came
along. We were on the bridge. Theodore Guest hit the soldier. McDaniels made two shots.
Q. Was the soldier still on the ground?
A. No he got up and started to run. McDaniels fired >on him.
Q. How far away from McDaniels were you? As far as from here to the end of this table?
(Witness nods) (Court agrees distance to be approximately 10 feet).
Q. What happened then?
A. I ran back to camp. (R.26).
Corporal Theodore B. Janusz, a soldier, was given first aid at the hospital in Antrim at about 11:00 P.M., for a gun-shot wound received within an hour previous (R.A3). By stipulation his statement (Exhibit A) was read in evidence. It was, in substance, to the effect that he had taken his girl home and was returning to camp when a group of about 20 negroes called him over as he neared the bridge. When he came over to their side of the road, one of them knocked him down with his rifle butt. He thought all of them carried rifles. He got up and ran and was two or three steps away from them when he was struck in the chest by a bullet. A second shot missed.
He ran for some distance when he met a civilian policeman and was later taken to a hospital. One of the two girls with the two white .soldiers who were stopped by the colored soldiers on the bridge was left when the two white soldiers and other girl ran away and was present when Janusz arrived. She said "One of the colored boys struck him on the face. He fell and the one behind the one that hit him fired two shots at him and said they would put one in me if I didn't get home''. This was between a quarter and twenty past ten o'clock (R.19-20). The defense testimony was in substance, that it was "real dark" that night. None of defense witnesses were at the bridge when the shooting occurred.
ft » av ^	^
r\, >
i . i ■
139
CONFIDENTIAL
4* The direct and uncontroverted evidence amply supports the conclusion of the court that accused committed the offense charged* The evidence^in fact ample to support a more serious charge* The court gave the accused the maximum penalty for the offense charged, but under the circumstances as shown, It is not excessive*
5* While the record of trial falls to show that accused was given the opportunity to be sworn as a witness or was informed of his right to make a statement to the court or that the trial judge advocate 'and defense counsel presented arguments, it is presumed that the usual and normal trial procedure was followed and that counsel fully performed their duty to the accused*
6.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense involved* No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence*
7.	Accused is 22 years of age. Pursuant to paragraph 5(d), General Order 37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by General Order 63, 4 December 1942, the execution of a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when the accused is sentenced to confinement of three years or more or for an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. A general prisoner may be returned to the United States for the serving of a sentence of three years or more* The designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chilllcothe, Ohio, is correct*
.Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(On detached service) Judge Advocate
139
CON
235flnV
1st Ind
(209)
WAR DEPARTMENT, Office of The Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, APO 871, U. S. Army.
TO: Commanding General, Service of Supply, European Theater of Operations, U. S. Army.
1.	I concur in the foregoing holding of the Board of Review.
You now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order in this case are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record of this case in this office is ETO 139. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the published order as follows:
(ETO 139).
European Theater of Operations.
- 5 -
#(211)
