#(1)
WAR DEPARTMENT In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
SEP 24 1942
ETO 2U.
UNITED STATES v.
Private First Class DANA E. ’WHITE (15013057), Company G, 13th Armored Regiment.
1ST ARMORED DIVISION
Trial by G. C. M. convened at Cas-tlewellan, County Down, Northern Ireland, August 31» 19U2. Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances and confinement at hard labor for three (3) years* Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, is designated as the place of confinement•
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following charge and specification t
CHARGE:	Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification:	In that Private First Class Dana E. White,
Company "G", 13th Armored Regiment, did, at Washington Court House, Ohio, on or about April 7, 19k2, commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection with Private First Class Melvin A. Hunton, Company "G", 13th Armored Regiment, in that he, the said Private First Class White, did insert into his own mouth the penis of the said Private First Class Hunton, a male human being.
He pleaded not guilty to, and was found guilty of, the charge and specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor foi/uhree (3) years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of Yfar S&j.
3.	The accused, at the time of the incident giving rise to the charge, -was a member of Company "G", 13th Armored Regiment (R 12). On or about April 7, 19U2, this regiment was engaged in an overland movement from Fort Knox, Kentucky, to Fort Dix, New Jersey (R 6, 12). It moved by its own power. The first night's bivouac was near Washington Court House, Ohio (R 6, 7)» At the time canp was made, the accused and Private First Class Melvin A. Hunton, Company "G", 13th Armored Regiment, became tent mates (R 12, 22). They pitched their pup tent together, but-it was not a deliberately planned, nor previously ordered, companionship (R 2k, 23) • Before the night/this bivouac, the two soldiers had not been tent mates (R 2k, 23) > and, subsequently, they did not sleep together under the same pup tent (R 2k), although they had slept in the same squadroom or floor (R 10, 2k). Private Hunton had known the accused for about two years (R 8, 10). It was raining when the pup tents were pitched (R 12, 22). Hunton and the accused went to bed in the tent, dressed in their combat suits (R 13, 20). Hunton wore the old type of ccmbat suit - "the kind that zip up the front" (R 13, 20). The zipper on the suit was closed when Hunton went to bed that night (R 20). Hunton also wore summer undershirt and shorts (R 21).
The two soldiers slept with their feet towards the tent opening (R lii, 19). Accused on the left side of Hunton (R 26). The evidence establishes the foregoingficts without conflict.
vate/;
. The prosecution's case is dependent upon the evidence of Pri-.unat of Herman T. McWatters, Captain, 13th Armored Regiment.
Hunton*s testimony is direct and positive that, when he was awakened by the guard on the morning of April 8, 19k2, at or about the hour of 3:00 o'clock A.M., he discovered the accused lying across his stomach (R 7, 26); that accused was lying on the left side of Hunton with his right-arm on Hunton's chest (R 8, 26)j and that his (Hunton's) penis was erect and in the mouth of the accused (R 7, 23). He asserted that such situation was without his volition or desire (R 7). Hunton's combat suit had been opened - "it had been zipped all the way down" (R 21). Hunton had no blanket covering him, but had slept in his combat uniform on top of his bed roll (R 21). When he discovered accused's actions, Hunton shoved accused away and got out of the tent (R 8, 21). He did not report the incident to a superior officer until five hour's later (about 8:00 A.M.), then it was to an unidentified lieutenant #10 was on the convoy with Hunton (R 9, 23, 21). Hunton also made report to a non-commissioned officer of his company when he reached Fort Dix (R 23).
Captain McWatter's testimony was to the effect that, in the last week of April, 19k2, he questioned accused in connection with the alleged offense (R 16); that, at that time, he warned accused that anything he said could be used against him; that he did not lead accused to believe that, if he confessed, his punishment might be lighter; that he did not threaten accused (R 17); that he propounded to the accused the specific question:	"Had	he been guilty of an unnatural sexual act?";
(3)
and that accused responded:	"Yes, sir, he had been" (R 17)• There-
after, in the course of his testimony in rebuttal. Captain McWatters was interrogated by a member of the court, and the following colloquoy ensued:
"Q. VJhat was specific question that resulted in that
answer?
A. I told Private "White he had been accused of the act of sodomy or of having unnatural relationship with another man.
Q. Is that the way you put it?
A. It is.
Q. And he said what?
A. He said it was true.
/
Q. Did he later in the same investigation change his answer or qualify it in any way?
A. Not at that time, sir.
Q. Did he change it at another time?
A. Yes, sir. It was after Private "White was brought in to Northern Ireland. I asked him why the trial had been delayed or what disposition had been made of the case before he left Fort Dix. In the conversation it was brought out that he misunderstood the questions on which I based my charged.
Q. Did you ask him whether he had put his mouth on the penis of Private Hunton?
A. I didn't ask him that.
Q. Did Private White seem to understand what you were talking about?
A. I thought he did understand what I meant, but he states to me since he arrived in Northern Ireland that he did not understand and that he did not have sexual relationship -with Private Hunton. The charges which you have here in court now are as they were drawn in the last week of April, 19li2, at Fort Dix, New Jersey". (R 17, 18.)
24
-3-
(A)
On rebuttal, the prosecution produced as a witness. Private John Blanton, Company »G", 13th Armored Regiment (R 27) and, after qualifying the witness as to his acquaintanceship and contact with' accused, propounded to him the following question:
"What was accused's general reputation by those who
know him best as to any perversion or the like?
yhat is accused's general reputation by those who
have known him best *	*» (R. 28).
The defense objected to the question, and thereupon the trial judge advocate declared:	"The	prosecution	contends that the defense
has introduced two character witnesses as to accused's good character or reputation, which is normally presumed to be good. The matter in issue is whether he is a pervert. The prosecution wishes to establish the-accused's reputation as to perversity. The defense, in its introduction of the character of the accused in the case, immediately placed the accused's reputation and character" (R 28). The president and law member of the court ruled:	"The	testimony	of the witness will be lim-
ited to such facts as he may know himself. Is that clear?" (R 28).
The prosecution declined to question the witness further (R 28). Thereupon, the court, of its own motion proceeded to interrogate the witness, Blanton. Questions were propounded for the obvious purpose of extracting from the witness evidence of specific acts of perversion or immorality between the accused and witness, or between third persons and the accused (R 28-30). Pertinent examples of these questions and the responses of the witness thereto are:
"Q. Has he at any time asked you to have sexual relations with him?
A. No, sir." (R 28).
■* * -K * •K- * *
"Q. Has he ever made a grab for your privates?
. A. No, just laid his hand over it or something like that.
Q. Did I understand you to say that he laid his hand on your privates?
A. Yes, sir." (R 28).
24
(5)
"Q. Did he lay his hand on your leg or your privates?
A. On my privates, sir." (R 29).
**«•****
"Q. Did you ever see him do it to anybody else?
A. No, sir.
Q. Did you ever see him propositioning anybody else?
A. No, sir.” (R 30).
Following this examination of the witness by the court, the prosecution asked the witness the following question:
"Private Blanton, in the organization of which you are a member, what is the accused*s general reputation anong those who know him best as to any perversion, sexual perversion?” (R30).
The defense objected to the question (R 30), In the colloquoy between the. trial judge advocate, the defense counsel and president and law member of the court, which ensued, the president stated:	”It	is the
opinion of the court than ay evidence tending to establish the bad character of the accused should be presented in the testimony of persons who have personal knowledge of those facts. The present witness has testified as to his knowledge of the actions of~accused (under-scoring supplied). If the prosecution desires to establish that, it should be introduced in the form of direct evidence” (R 30). Thereupon, the president sustained the defense's objection (R 31), and the prosecution rested its case.
5.	The accused appeared as a sworn witness in his own behalf, after being duly warned by the court as to his right, and that, if he elected to testify, he was subject to examination as any other witness (R 11, 12). His testimony corroborates that of Private Hunton as to all preliminary matters-(R 11, 12). On direct examination, he made no specific denial of the offense, but, upon asked:	”Did you have any
recollection of being close to Private Hunton?”, he replied:	"Not	very
well, sir. I don't remember. I don't recall real clear, sir, because I was awakened by the rain and I had just moved and I went back to sleep again” (R 12). On cross-examination by the prosecution, the following colloquoy occurred:
"Q. At any time during the night had you fondled Private Hunton's organ?
A. If I had I did it in my sleep (underscoring supplied).
-5-
£4
(6)
"Q. Had you his penis in your mouth?
A. No, sir. Not unless I did it in mv sleep (underscoring supplied)"(R lU).
A member of the court interrogated accused and, in the course of the examination, the following discussion developed:
"Q. What kind of combat suit had he (Hunton) on - old style or new style?
A. I believe it was the new style. I don't know whether there are ary new types.
Q. Did it have a zipper on the front?
A. I think it did.
Q. Did it have a zipper on the side? Did it have one on the side and one in the front?
A. I am not sure.
Q. Did it zip up or down?
A. As I remember, sir all of them zipped down.
Q. How do you know that?
A. I was kind of in a subconscious mind. That's how I happened to know. Just realized it when I woke up and saw it was in that condition (underscoring supplied)” (rT3)T--------------------
The defense also produced two character witnesses (r 10, 11) who each testified, without objection, that, prior to April 7> 19^2, the accused had never "propositioned” the witnesses and that they did not know of him "propositioning" anyone else (R 11).
6.	The evidence thus shows without contradiction that the ac« cused had access to Private Hunton at the time and place alleged in the specification under.circumstances that corroborates Hunton*s specific testimony as to the commission of the offense by accused. The testi-monyof Private Hunton as to the act charged is direct and positive (R 7, 25-27)t and it was not shaken by cross-examination of the defense orby the examination of the court. The accused made no categorical or
-6-
24
(7)
positive denial of the criminal act; rather, his denials are qualified and evasive. They are in the nature of a confession and avoidance (R lit). He said if he fondled Private Hunton's organs, W1 did it in my sleep™, and if he had Private Hunton's penis in his mouth, "I did it in my sleep11 (R ll|). Such denials are unconvincing. The do not meet the test of honesty and frankness. They indicate an unwillingness on the part of accused to make a forthright denial. They are attempts to meet a direct charge by an explanation instead ofby a straight forward denial. They reveal a guilty conscience and not the clear conscience of a man falsely accused of a filthy crime. There is no element of indignation in them, such as would be naturally aroused in the breast of an innocent man.
Further, corroboration of the testimony of Private Hunton is furnished by the accused himself when, interrogated by a member of the court (R 15). He had been questioned as to the style of combat suit worn by Hunton on the night in question (R 15). He was then asked,
"Did it zip up or down?™. He answered, "As I remember, sir, aLl of them zip down". The court member then asked, "How do you know that?". (R 15) Then came a most interesting answer, "I was kind of in a subsconscious mind. That’s how I happened to know. ' Just realized it when I woke up and saw it in that condition (,R 15)". Private Hunton testified that his combat suit was closed when he went to bed that night (R 20) but, that upon his awakening, in the morning, it had been opened - "It had been zipped all the way down (R 21)". It therefore appears that the accused himself agrees with Private Hunton that the latter's uniform had been opened during the ni^it. The accused then unconsciously reveals an equivocal mental process. He says that Private Hunton's uniform had been "zipped down" because he happened to know it in Lis "subconscious mind", and that he realized it when he woke up and "saw it was in that condition". His statement indicates a desire on his part to admit that Hunton's uniform had been opened, but he connects such facts with his "subconscious mind", in order to evade an implication that he himself "zipped it down". Such testimony necessarily creates an unfavorable impression in the minds of the court as to the verity of his entire testimony.
The court heard Private Hunton and the accused testifyj observed their demeanor on the witness stand, and had the advaitage of personal contact with them. It was the court's duty to reconcile conflicts in their evidence; determine the prbative value of evidence accepted by it; and discover the honesty and trustworthiness of the witnesses. * The so-called "character evidence" either for or against accused is valueless, and its introduction served no good purpose except to excite legal questions hereinafter considered.
The Board of Review is of the opinion that there is compelling evidence that accused committed the crime charged;that the prosecution sustained its burden of proving, beyond a reasonable doubt, the
_7_
24
commission of the offense charged.
7,	The adnri.sa.on of testimony involving the so-called confession of accused requires but brief consideration. Excerpts from the record above abstracted clearly show that Captain McVJatters, at the time of first interrogating accused (at Fort Dix), warned him that anything he said could be used against him; that he did not lead accused to believe that, if he confessed, his punishment might be lighter; and that he did not threaten accused in order to obtain the confession. On the occasion of the second interrogation of accused by Captan McWatters (in Ireland), the accused made no confession, but, instead, a denial. The defense raised no objection to admission in evidence of the alleged confession. The accused first indicated the existence of the confession in its original cross-examination of Captafn McWatters (R 9, 10), although the prosecution, on direct examination, made no mention of it (R <?)• Under these circumstances, the Board of Review is of the opinion that there was no error committed by the court in admitting, in evidence. Captain Me1,Tatter’s testimony as to the accused*s confession (MCM, Par. llU, Page 116).
Captain McTTatter’s testimony (R 16-18) concerning his second interview with accused, affects only the probative value of the confession. The accused, on the second interview, declared he did not understand the meaning and purport of the questions propounded to him by the Captain at the first interview, and specifically denied he had committed the crime vdfo which he is charged. This conflict in the statements of accused is not revelant, nor material, in considering the question of the admissibility of the McWatter’s testimony covering the confession.
It goes to the weight and sufficiency of the confession and that was matter exclusively for the court.
8.	The defense produced two "character" witnesses (Lynch and Garland) (R 11), who, without objection from the prosecution, testified that accused had never propositioned" either of they, and that neither of them had ever known of accused's propositioning" anyone else (R 11). This is not evidence of ‘good reputation" or "good character" within the meaning of the rule permitting an accused to introduce evidence of his own good character (MCM, Par. 112, Page 112). This testimony should have been excluded by the court, had the prosecution objected. It was entirely immaterial to the issue before the court. It was of no value. The two witnesses might have been the only two persons out of two hundred individuals that the accused had not "propositioned". It was negative evidence.
Two of the principal rules concerning the introduction of evidence of an accused's general reputation are declared as follows:
-8-
24
(9)
"General character is the reputation one has made in the community in which he lives, the result of his general walk and conversation, and it cannot be shown by proof of particular acts of good conduct or bad conduct, but only by proof of his general reputation^that is, what his neighbors say about him, or/ne is generally accepted, received or regarded by them". (Wharton's Criminal Evidence, Vol. 1, Page U63-U; Sec. 331«)
"* the state cannot offer evidence of bad character of the accused except to rebut his evidence of good character, but when the defendant puts his character in issue, the prosecution may rebut such evidence by proof of bad reputation * #	(Whar-
ton's Criminal Evidence, Vol. 1, Page H56; Sec. 330.)
The prosecution, on rebuttal, attempted to meet the so-called "character" evidence of the accused (R 27# 28). The trial judge advocate, apparently having mind the rules of evidence above stated, propounded to the witness, Blanton (R 28), a question in substaace as follows:
"Private Blanton, in the organization in which you are a member, what is the accused's general reputation among those who know him best as to any perversion, sexual perversion (R 28, 30)".
The defense objected to the question and the court sustained the objection with the comment:	"The	testimony of the witness will be
limited to such facts as he may know himself. Is that clear? (R 28)".
The prosecution declined to question the witness further. It was then the court, of its own volition, asked the witne®, Blanton, in substance, whether the accused solicited witness to have sexual relations with him; whether accused ever made a "grab for his privates"; whether witness had ever seen accused do it to anyone else;and whether witness ever 1 saw accused "proposition" anybody else (R 28-30). At the conclusion of the court's examination, the prosecution renewed its question as to the general reputation of accused as to sexual perversion (R 30). Again the defense objected (R 30) and again the objection was sustained (R 31) with the observation that "The present witness has testified as to his knowledge of the actions of the accused (R 30)". With this state of the record, the question arises as to whether the court, in its rulings, committed errors seriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused.
It is to be observed that the defense counsel, in the first instance, misconceived the nature of "character" evidence. His witnesses did not testify as to the general reputation of the accused for morality
-9-
24
(10)
and normal sexual conduct; rather, they gave only negative evidence. Their evidence was not even testimony as to specific acts of good conduct. On rebuttal, the trial judge advocate, in order to meet this evidence, asked the witness,'Blanton, a question as to the general reputation of the accused. The court refused to permit such question to be answered; made Private Blanton its own witness, and proceeded to secure from him evidence of solicitation or "propositioning1 of the witness by the accused.
The court was correct in sustaining the objection to the trial judge advocate's interrogatory to the witness, Blanton, but not for the reason stated by it. As above indicated, the accused's interrogatories to his witnesses. Lynch and Garland, did not put in issue any question as to accused's general character or reputation. They raised no issue, because they were entirely negative and without materialty to the issue before the court. Hence, the prosecution was not authorized to draw into issue the question of accused's general character. The prosecution had no evidence of accused's good character to rebut. This is the true reason for the ruling.
However, when the court made the witness, Blanton, its own witness, and secured from him evidence of commission by accused of specific acts of perversion not connected with the offense for which accused was on trial, a different question is presented. Yfas this evidence admissible? The accused had previously testified that if he had performed the acts of perversion on Private Hunton, he had done so in his sleep (R lU). Thereby, he introduced the element of accident, mishap or unintentional criminal conduct. Blanton's responses to the court's questions negative such element and they were thereby both re-velant and material and served to rebut the inferences of accused's testimony. On this basis, the evidaice was admissible.
"Evidence which shows, or tends to show, the commission of another crime, is admissible when it shows the absence of accident’ ormistake in the commission of the act charged against the accused". (VJharton's Criminal Evidence, Vol. 1, Sec. 3!>U> page $36.)
Although the record shows that the court and counsel did not properly appreciate the correct application of the rules of evidence hereinabove discussed, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the court, in its rulings on the admissibility of evidence, did not commit any error substantially affecting the rights of the accused.
9* For the reasons stated, the Board of Review holds that the record). of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of both the charge and specification and legally sufficient to support the sentence. The court was legally constituted. No error injuriously af-
24
-10-
(11)
footing the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the
trial•
The accused is twenty-three (23) years of age. Pursuant to paragraph $ (d), General Order 37, ETOUSA, 9 September 19li2, the execution of a sentence of dis honor able discharge may be ordered execxited when an accused is sentenced to confinement for three (3) years or more for an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Obviously, sodomy is such an offense. A general prisoner may be returned to the United States for service of sentence of three (3) years or more. The Secretary of ’Var, by instructions dated 26 February lpifL (AG 233 (2-6-lfL) E), directed that prisoners in such cases under thirty-one (31) years of age and sentenced to not more than ten (10) years, will be confined ir. the. Federal. Correctional institution or Reformatory, which is nearest the port of debarkation in the United States. The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, is the proper place of confinement.
1st Ind.
YiAR DEB-.RTLSI.IT, Office of The Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, APO 871, U. S. Army,S£P 24 1942 '
TO:	Commanding	General, 1st Armored Division, APO #251, U. S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private First Class Dana E. V/hite, (15013057), Company G, 13th Armored Regiment, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of lYar 50y, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	TJhen copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding, and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 2U.
For convenience of reference, please place that number in brackets at the end of the published order.
(ETO 2U)	/y
L. h. HEDRICK, J > Brigadier General,
Judge Advocate General,
European Theater of Operations.
-Hr-
24
#(13)
