#(357)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations - APO 871.
BOAH) OF BEVIEW
ETO i486
UNITED	STATES	)
' ‘ * ) v.	)
. . ) Private HECTOR A. MacDONALD ) (31326380) and Private First ) Class- EVERTON N. llac CRIMSON ) (6538571)* both of Company*B", ) 398th Engineer General Service <) -Regiment.	)
)
•) ■
2 4 MAY 1944
SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G_.C.M. * convened at Burns-hill Camp, Somerset, England, 5 January 1944* Sentences as to eachi Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for three years, 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England,
OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1,	The record of trial in the cases of the soldiers named above has been examined in the-Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of-Operations and there found legally sufficient to support the findings and-sentence as to Private First Class Everton N, MacCrimmon, and legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence as to Private Hector-A. MacDonald, The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.
2,	Accused were tried jointly upon the following Charge and_Specification, preferred separately as to each:
CHARGE:	Violation	of 93rd Article of War,
Specification:	In	that Private First Class Everton
N, MacCrimmon and Private Hector A, Macdonald, both of Company ■B", 398th Engineer General Service Regiment, acting jointly and in pursuance of a common intent, did, at Cannington, Somerset,
"	England,	on	or	about 28 November 1943* feloniously
take, steal and carry away about eighty-three pounds, currency of the United Kingdom, having the exchange value of about $334*90* property of the United States Army Post Exchange.
- 1 -
(358)	/
Each pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence was introduced of previous convictions as to either accused. Each was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor for three years at such place as the reviewing authority may direct. As to each accused, the reviewing authority approved the sentence, ordered it executed but suspended that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement, and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, as the place of confinement.
1
The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial.. Order No. 28, Headquarters Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, dated 10 February 1944»
i	i
3..- The evidence for the prosecution shows that at the time and place alleged. Private William Teisciero, Company B, 398th Engineer General Service Regiment, operated the company post exchange which was part of th$ regimental exchange. Teisciero wa3 in complete charge of requisitioning and selling supplies, and of all receipts (Rl6,32). Accused MacDonald tended-the fires in the building and took care of the showers and latrine (R41). At intervals of two weeks Teisciero made up an inventory by taking the money value of the stock on hand at the beginning of the period, and balancing it against the cash delivered by him and the money value of the stock remaining on hand at the end of the period. Every month an inventory was made by a representative of the regimental post exchange (R3&-37»39)» Teisciero delivered his cash receipts to the post exchange officer usually eveiy week and, on occasions, at the end of two weeks (R38-39). No daily record was made of sales (R29.36).	1	.	*
w	-	-	i
• Cash receipts were kept in a cash box fitted with a lock, but the key did not "seem to fit"' (R28,36,39)» At night the box was kept in a wall closet fitted with a steel door to which Teisciero alone jiad a key (R28-29.33).	also possessed a key to the entrance door of the post ex-
change but as the door had no lock he was forced .to secure JLt by * just pulling the door to and taking the knob out* (R33--34)* < . the other side of a second door leading into the post exchange was a tailor shop. This door was secured by a board which was nailed on the floor behind the door. (R33.38.40).	.
About 7 p.m. 28 November 1943* Teisciero sold cigarettes to two customers and made change from the cash box which he removed from the safe (R33»4l)» He did not put the box back in the safe because he was about to take an inventory and count cash. He then left the post exchange at least twice during the evening. On one occasion he was away 20 minutes and on another 45 ndnutes. From 7 p*m. until the time he went to bed the cash box was on the counter. He slept in the post exchange room. No one was in the post exchange when he left, and on each occasion he "locked" the door by removing both knobs and taking them with him. When he went to bed he put the box in the wall safe but did not open it (R33-34i36»38-39, 42). The following morning (29 November) he opened the cash box and found
- 2 -
(359)
that all the paper money was missing (R34,38). That afternoon an inventory was taken hy Teiaciero and the regimental post exchange representative, and hy comparison with the inventory taken two weeks before, it was determined that about 83 pounds were missing (R17-18, 34-35,40), Teiaciero did not know how-much money was in the cash box that evening because, he had not counted it for two or three days prior to the theft. He had no way of determining whether the shortage of about 83 pounds was entirely in cash or partially in cash and partially in stock (R2j.O-41)«
On the evening of 28 November Private First Class Norvin E» Wroughton, a member of accused's organization,-went to a 'pub* with accused MacCrimmon and remained until closing time. When they returned to their hut, MacCrimmon went out, returned and asked Wroughton to go outside with him. He told Wroughton that "MacDonald had robbed the P.X.", that he found him with "the money" and that he gave him (MacCrimmon) part of it (R44»47)» Wroughton told MacCrimmon he should rid himself of the money and the latter suggested that he hide -it. He accompanied MacCrimmon to a spot some 200 yards distant from their hut, near a barn abd MacCrimmon buried the-money in a hole in the ground, Wroughton did not know how much money was involved (R44-45,48). The following evening they again went to the 'pub' and remained until closing time. On their way back to Can?) MacCrimmon "decided the money had to be moved" and went to get it, but Wroughton returned to his hut._ MacCrimmon later appeared and said that he could not find .the money, whereupon Wroughton went back, with him, found the money and gave it to him, Wroughton later discovered that "Nine pounds * * * was what we had reclaimed and taken with us," The following morning (3° November) MacCrimmon went over to a Private Stephenson’s bed in the same hut"and done something"(R44-45,48), Wroughton did not get any money from either MacCrimmon or MacDonald, On both evenings in question MacCrimmon was ,*not exactly soberf, Wroughton was slightly intoxicated "but I wasn't as drunk as he was". He did not see MacDonald on the f-irst night (R45-47)*
On the morning of 29 November MacCrimmon said to Private Paul Stephenson, a member of his organization, "I hit the P.X, last night, for about a hundred pounds," On the following Friday (3 December) Stephenson was sitting on-his -bed reading when he discovered MacCrimmon standing behind him with an upraised, beer bottle. Stephenson left and later returned and moved his bed because he feared trouble over the incident. When making his bed about three and a half hours later he found 10 pounds in the mattress and turned it over to First Sergeant Durand (1*63-65),
On 3 December as the result of an interview with Sergeant Durand and Stephenson, MacCrimmon and-MacDonald were questioned in turn on several occasions in the presence of Captain*John P. Pasmussen, commander of the 1st Battalion, Captain Roily A. Andrew, commander of Company B, First Lieutenant Robert N, Grunow, administrative office-of Company B, and the company first sergeant, John C. Durand (R12,l8-20,22,53), It is difficult to ascertain from the evidence the exact order of events leading to the oral and written statements ultimately given by each accused, and the evidence
3
(360)
relative to the discovery of the money is confusing and ,1based to some extent on hearsay. Captain Andrew testified:
• • i _ * * *
- "This all happened in one day, and one ' afternoon, and we questioned both of them several times, and by tripping ■
* them up we finally got one to accuse the other one, and between the two * * *• (R2l).
It appears that MacCrimmon was first questioned about "where the 10 pounds had come from" and he denied all knowledge of the theft (R20,22). Wroughton was then questioned and then MacDonald who "swore that he was innocent" (R20-21). His story did not coincide with those of MacCrimmon and Wroughton (R22.53)* MacCrimmon was again interrogated and finally said that he "had no knowledge of the Post Exchange robbery" until he went down into the cellar where MacDonald was stoking the furnace and saw him counting a large sum of money. He "blackmailed him for ten pounds" and returned to his quarters (R20,23,53)•	MacDonald. wa3 again questioned and
at first protested his innocence but finally admitted that he took the money.* He said that MacCrimmcn first approached him, told him the loca-, tion of the money in the post exchange, how the room could be entered and the money taken. MacDonald took the money on the night of 28 November and later that evening when MacCrimmon asked for "his cut on the deal", they divided the money. MacDonald did not know how much he took from the post exchange and neither he nor MacCrimmon knew how much money they . divided (Rll-l2,20,21,23-25,53“54»62). The evidence as to MacCrimmon's ultimate oral statement is somewhat> conflicting. Captain Andrew testified on one occasion that MacCrimmon never changed his story about finding MacDonald in the cellar and blackmailing him for 10 pounds (R23). MacCrimmon's ultimate written statement corroborates this testimony except that he stated that he received about half the money when the two men were in the basement (Ex.B). * However, Captain Andrew also testified that MacCrimoon did change his statement and that he ultimately admitted that he persuaded MacDonald to commit the crime (R21), Lieutenant Grunow teati- . fied. that MacCrimmon, when confronted with MacDonald's final statement, admitted that he told the latter where the money was kept, what time to enter the post exchange, "how to go about it* and what to do after he took the money (R54)» Admitted iq evidence was the written statement of MacDonald which was made after he finally orally confessed his commission of the crime to Captain Rasmussen. MacDonald read the statement before he signed it. Also admitted in evidence was the written statement of Mac-Crinmon. Before they*signed the documents both men were advised by Lieutenant Grunow that they need not sign the statements if they did not desire to do so, and that the statements could be used against them. The defense objected to the admission of the two exhibits on the ground that they were involuntarily made because of certain conduct of Captain Rasmussen (R54-3®! Exs.A.B).
4
(361)
Captain Rasmussen testified that when interrogating MacCrimmon he told him "to come clean, on the whole thing * * *."(R11). Before he began to interrogate MacDonald he told him
■that we wanted hi s story* and -we wanted it honest and straightforward, and we	1
did not want any beating around the bush,
■	and it would be better for him to make a
clean breast of this thing because the Government would find these things out *	sooner	or	later, and we wanted him to
tell us the whole truth of- the matter"
(R12-13).	-	•
Asked what he told MacDonald as to what might happen if he did not confess to any part he played in the incident, and if-he said anything . *» about Leavenworth "Prison", Rasmussen testified:
■I believe that I mentioned that Leaven- ^ worth is the place that they put people that commit acts against the government"
(R13)*	\
When MacDonald persisted in pleading his innocence and showed "a decided reluctance to tell the truth
■I think I said to him that what I'd like • to do if I had the right was 'to give you a damn 'good beating'* (RI3).
When he made this statement he might have been talking to both accused. Captain Rasmussen further testified that he "got quite irritated* and that he raised and lowered his voice (R49)»
"If it was any fear connected with the case it was through my-feeling in this matter that showed very plainly that I was anxious for these men to tell the 1 truth, which was evident they were withholding"^^.
MacDonald declared himself innocent when first questioned and "had a very good case already thought out for himself and had been sticking to it very well." *	T
"It Was only through a l6t of hard work on my part, and questioning him, and leading him up to different things that I got him to talk. At the time I did get him to talk was when I brought out to him that his pal MacCrinsnon that he
5
was trying to shield, had no .mercy as far as he was concerned, and had already * * * discussed the case, and that we « had facts.at hand, and finally the boy broke and iaid 'Well • * * I will tell you.. I took it'" (R15).
■* * * in my methods to find out the facts I tried to reach into the heart of these two men to have them come clean with their confessions.
I was presuming at all times that these men were innocent until they declared themselves differently, and I gave them every opportunity to do so by the questioning of them. At the outset there was evidence and testimony pointing to the fact that these men were involved"
(R49).
The defense counsel asked thp witness "Captain, did you at the time of this questioning, and at the time you stated MacDonald did make a (oral) statement to you, inform him as to his rights under thej 24th Article of War?*.
The witness replied "Nb,sir"(R14).
Captain Andrew testified that he was present when Captain Rasmussen questioned MacDonald* Asked by defense counsel if any threatening statements were made he replied "Only in the heat of the questioning"(R26)*	He
could not say whether the same answer applied to MacCrimmon (R26-27)* The written statement of MacDonald was in substance as follows!
On the afternoon of 28 November MacCrimmon told him that it would be easy to obtain the funds kept in the "EX" and that "the best time would be before the trucks got back from town or before 2300 hours** About 9*3® p*m* MacDonald went to the post exchange and easily gained entrance as the door was not,locked. He lifted the cover of the cash box which was on the counter, removed the currency and hid the money in the basement* After 11 p*m. he met MacCrimmon who asked-him how he "made out"* MacDonald replied that "it was easy"', and showed him the hiding* place and the money* MacCrimmon took about half the bills and left, and MacDonald put his half back in the hiding place* He did not see the money after that time nor had he spent any of it (ErosJEx* A).
- » .....
The written statement of MacCrimmon was, in substance, that he returned to camp about II.30 p*m* 28 November, and went to the basement where the furnace was located in order to obtain from MacDonald a carton of cigarettes which he had asked the latter to purchase for him. There he saw MacDonald counting a large* number pt pound notes and- asked him where he obtained the money* When MacDonald replied he "robbed the FX"t he told
6
(363)
him he ."better give me about half the money or I would squawk*. MacDonald "split the bills without counting them and gave me approximately half of them". MacCrimmon took the money, went to his hut and told Wroughton that MacDonald "robbed the PX", and showed him the money* At Vroughton's suggestion* they hid the money near the corner of a barn* The following evening they decided to move the bills but MacCrimmon could not find then* Wroughton found nine pounds later that evening and gave -them to MacCrimmon who hid'them in his bunk that evening and on the following morning (30 November) placed them in Stephenson's mattress. On Wednesday evening (1 December) they decided to remove the bills but Stephenson walked in during the attempt, became suspicious and left* Later that evening Stephenson returned and moved his bed to another hut* The money was then in the mattress. MacCrimoon did not have the money in his possession when he made the foregoing statement nor had he spent any of it (Pros*Ex.B).
Both statements are dated 2 December which was* apparently* the result of a typographical error*
The sum-of 70 pounds was ultimately recovered (R54»58)* Captain Rasmussen testified that when he'made his oral confession MacDonald told "where the money was". Andrew testified that 36 pounds were found in the cellar by Sergeants Riley and Whatley (R23), and Lieutenant Grunow testified that when MacDonald wa3 informed that some of the money was found in the basement, he said "that was his cache* (R54)* MacCrimmon said that he buried some money in a stable* He took Captain Andrew and Lieutenant Grunow to the spot and "dug up" 24 pound's (R24,26,29-30,54,58)* Lieutenant Grunowj'who had custody of the-recovered currency, testified that Captain Andrew gave him another 10 pounds* saying that it was recovered from a mattress of a bed (R52.58)*
* •
About a week and a half after 29 November, First Lieutenant Robert A* Steele, Company A, 398th Engineer General Service Regiment, was appointed investigating officer and interviewed each accused separately at the Tidworth Garrison area guardhouse (R67)* He told them that he was the investigating officer, explained his duties aid advised them that "they did not have to give me a statement; if they did it would be voluntary, and could be used against them in court at a.later date* (R67-68), MacDonald in substance orally reiterated the facts contained'in his written statement, Pros*Ex.A,. and further stated that on the afternoon of 28 November MacCrimmon asked if he would "go in with him on.robbing the P.X." MacDonald was hesitant at first but finally agreed to it (R69)*
*
The oral'statement given by MacCrimmon to Lieutenant Steele varied in substance from his written.statement, Pros*Ex.B, in that he admitted approaching MacDonald, said that it "would be a pretty easy thing to rob the P.X., and asked him about would he come in on it with him** It was finally agreed that MacDonald would commit the offense that, night "while the men were in town"* When MacCrimmon returned from town about 11 p*m* he met MacDonald and asked "how he did** MacDonald replied that he obtained the money but he
■7-
was "scared* because *it was too easy" and that he thought "it was a trap".
He gave *the money to MacCrimmon who "peeled off* part of -it for MacDonald and took the rest. Either man counted the money* MacCrimmon later saw Wrought on and told him that he met MacDonald who had a considerable amount of currency; that MacDonald told him he had "just robbed the P.X.", whereupon MacCrimmon threatened that he would "squeal," If he did not give him part of the money* The remainder of his oral statement substantially coincided with his prior written statement# He admitted threatening Stephenson with a bottle and stated -that he did so in order to obtain the -money in his mattress (R68-69).~
Captain Andrew testified, on cross-examination by .the defense, that during the three months he commanded the oompany MacDonald followed all orders and was!considered a fair soldier. "He was an easy mark by the rest of the, men, by earning money running errands for them" (R27)* Lieutenant Grunow testified that MacDonald was a hard worker, would do exactly as he was told (R59“6o), and that he "has always been honest"# He would trust him with 10 pounds of his own money, "would go along* with him and would not hesitate to have him in his company. He further testified "I have talked to other fellows around the Company, and Private MacDonald • himself is pretty easily led" (R61-62).
* •
4# Tor the defense First Sergeant John C* Durand, Company B, 398th Engineers, testified that accused MacDonald was *very good" as a soldier, that he always did what was asked of him although the witness would not trust him with an "important job" (R7173)# ■ He was easily led by other men would do willingly whatever was requested of him "regardless of what it was" (R72)# Durand was present when both<accused were questioned by Captairs Rasmussen and Andrew and Lieutenant Grunow. Asked by the court if there were any threatening statements, language or gestures during the questioning, Durand testifiedi '	j
•It was a pretty exciting day that day, and I can't recall everything, sir, just	>
the fact that the Captain did mention -	something	about	Leavenworth, and said that .
•	anybody	Who	committed	any	offense	in the
•	army was subject to go.to Leavenworth.
1	Q,.	Was it 'any offense'?
A. Well, in a case like this, you might say"(R73)#
5# The defense objected to the admission in evidence of the written statements of each accused on the ground that the confessions were involuntary because of the conduct of Captain Rasmussen. For the purposes of discussion it is considered preferable to treat the merits of the case as to each accused separately.*
» . >
•Facts indicating that a confession was induced by hope of benefit or fear of , punishment or injury inspired by a person
•8-
(365)
competent (or believed by* the party confessing to be competent) to effectuate the hope or fear is, subject to the following observations, evidence that the confession was involuntary. Much depends > on the nature of the benefit or of the punishment or injury, on the words used,' and on the personality of the accused, and on the relations of the parties involved (MCM, I928,* par.lli|a, p.ll6).
-	i
"The fact that the confession 'was made to a military superior or to the representative agent of Such superior will ordinarily be regarded as requiring'further inquiry into the circumstances, particularly where the case is one of an enlisted man confessing to a military superior or to the represent-ative/agent 'of a military superior" (ibid.
"A. sergeant obtained a confession from a private by telling the latter, in substance, that he was under suspicion and it would be best for him to tell the truth and 'coma clean' as, otherwise, he would be found out sooner or later and then the penalty would probably be more severe. Held - The confession could not be classified as voluntary and was not admissible in evidence. C.M. 152444(1922)" (Dig.Op.JAG., 1912-1940, sec. 395(10), P.206).
*
■Accused was not warned that he need not answer the questions, except that he was told that he was not compelled to answer any questions which might incriminate himself. An $ officer advised him to tell the Absolute truthj' that it would be possible tpr accused to gain* more* by that method than by lying.
The confession was incompetent. CJi.120821 (1918)" (Dig.0p.JAG., 1912-1930, sec.1292, p.639).',
•After the accused had been placed in the ‘ guardhouse he was questioned by his command-ing officer. He was not warned that,he might refuse to answer questions,, or that what
~he said might be used against him. He was told that he had lied, that one -of the two men charged with the crime was to be hung and tha other to get 20 years in the penitentiary,
- 9 -
otherwise threatened * * • The confession so obtained was inadmissible* C*M* 124907	«
(1919)* (Ibid).	*
' * > .
‘	"After	accused'had been arrested by the civil
authorities, he was told by thanthat they -'had the goods on Mm, and that he just as well come clean, but no promise of any kind was’ made*.' * * * It was not shown that this confession was voluntary. The corpus1 delicti was not proved. Conviction is dis-, approved. C.M. 121458 (1918)* (Ibid, sec. « i 1293. p‘.64o).
(a)	Captain Easmussen testified that before interrogating MacDonald he said that
"we wanted his story, and wewanted it honest and straightforward, and we did not want any beating -around the bush, and it would be better for him to make a'clean-breast of. this thing because the Government would find . these things out sooner.or later, and we wanted him to tell us the whole truth of the matter."
/
*	i
I
He also mentioned that "Leavenworth is the place where they put people that commit acts against the government". When MacDonald persisted in pleading his innocence,and showed*a decided reluctance to tell the truth," Easmussen told him that/he had the right to do so he would like to give him a "damn good beating". He admitted that he was "quite irritated" and raised and lowered his voice. He further testified that if "there was any fear connected with the case" it was from his feeling that disclosed very plainly that he was anxious for the men to ,tell the truth, and that it was evident they were withholding it. ‘ He told MacDonald that "his pal Mac-Crimmon"» whom he was trying to shield, had already discussed the case and had no mercy for MacDonald. Finally MacDonald "broke" and admitted taking the money. He was not advised of his rights when the interrogation began. Asked if any threatening statements were made. Captain Andrewstestified "Only'In the heat of the questioning."
In view of the foregoing authorities, the threatening conduct and manner of interrogation on the part of Captain Easmussen, MacDonald's, battalion commander, the fact that his company commander1, his battalion administrative officer and his first sergeant were also present' during the questioning, and the absence of any warning- as to his rights, it is evident that MacDonald's oral confession was not voluntary. Although he was advised as to his rights by Lieutenant Gruncta before he signs-i the written confession, the document in substance em£>odied his prior oral confession and was signed shortly thereafter on the same day. Under such circumstances it
)
(367)
cannot be reasonably maintained that the warning given by Lieutenant Grunow removed the influence of Captain Rasmussen's priorjconduct and rendered the written statement voluntary in character. The Board of Review therefore . concludes that MacDonald's oral and written confessions should have been excluded from the evidence (CM ETO 1201, Pheil).
(b)	About one week after the written confession was made. Lieutenant Steele interviewed MacDonald in the Tidworth Garrison area guardhouse. He told him that he was the investigating officer, explained his duties and advised him that he "did not'have to give me a statement", that if he did so it would be voluntary, and that it could be used against him in court as a later date. MacDonald thereupon in substance reiterated the facts contained in his written confession. *	*	-
"And if a confession is induced by threats or violence or any undue influence, a subsequent confession is not admissible, unless it appears to the satisfaction of* the court that the prior influences have ceased to operate on the defendant's mind to bring about the later confession. * * *
But where on the trial of a criminal case a confession of the defendant is offered in evidence it becomes necessary for the trial court to ascertain and determine as a preliminary question of fact, whether it was freely and voluntarily made, and whether the previous undue influence, if any, had ceased to operate upon the mind of the defendant. In doing so, the court is necessarily vested with a very large discretion, which will not be disturbed on appeal, unless a clear abuse thereof is shown* (Mangum v. ,
United States 289 Fed.213,215)*
■Where a confession has been obtained from the accused by improper inducement, any statement 1	made	by	him while under that influence is in-
admissible, but the question arises as to whether a confession made subsequently to such inadmissible confession is itself admissible.
This question, as in the case of any other . confession, is one for the judge to decide, and each case must be determined on its own facts. The ^resumption prevails that the influence of the prior improper Inducement continues and that the subsequent confession is_ a result of the aanw influence: which renders the prior confession inadmissible, and the burden of proof rests upon the prosecution to establish the contrary. Such proof must clearly show, to admit such subsequent confession 11
11
(368)
in evidence, that the impression caused by the improper inducement had been removed before the subsequent confession was made. The determination of the extent of the influence persisting at the time the subsequent confession is made fests upon attendant circumstances, and _ the inquiry is whether, considering the degree of intelligence of the prisoner, the nature and degree of the Influence, and the time interviewing between the confessions, it can be said objectively that the confessor was not compelled to confess by reason of the pressure or inducement which motivated him to confess on the prior occasion* If the court concludes from all the facts and attendant circumstances that the improper influence had ceased to operate or had been removed, the subsequent confession is admissible. It has also been held, generally. that the influence of the Improper inducement is removed where the accused is properly cau-* tioned before the subsequent confession. The warning, however, so given should be explicit, and it ought to be full enough to apprise the accusedi (1) That anything that *he may say after such warning can be used against him} and (2) that his previous confession, made under improper Inducement, cannot be used against him, for it has been well said that 'for want of this information, the accused might think that he could not make his case worse than he had already made it. and, under-this Impression, might have signed the confession before the magistrate*" (Wharton's Criminal Evidence, Vol.2, sec.601, pp.998-1002) (Underscoring supplied). >
"A confession * * * may be rendered involuntary by a prior involuntary confession" (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, 4th Ed., sec.266, p.521).
"Once a confession made under improper influences is obtained, the presumption arises that>a subsequent confession of the same crime flows from the same influences, even though made to a different person than the one to whom the first was made. > * * * The evidence to rebut the presumption * * * must be presented by the prosecution * * *. The evidence to rebut the presumption must be clear and convincing ♦ ♦ ♦" (Evidence from American Jurisprudence, Civil and Criminal, sec.487. pp.424-425).
12
-	(369)
The question presented is whether the.prosecution's'evidence was sufficiently "clear and convincing* to rebut the presumption that •the influence of,the prior improper inducement continues and that the subsequent confession is a result of the same influence which renders the prior confession inadmissible". Steele informed him that he was the investigating officer, that he'did not have to make a statement, that if he did so- it would be voluntary, and that the statement could be used against him in court at a later date. No mention, whatsoever, was made of his previous confessions, nor was MacDonald informed that his prior confessions could not be used against him. It is reasonable to conclude under such circumstances that MacDonald, In the words of Wharton, might well have thought "that he could not make his case worse than he had already made it," and oraily. confessed his guilt to Steele as a consequence. Further, the interview occurred in the guardhouse and after.MacDonald had been'placed under arrest for the supposed commission pf the offense alleged* This confession occurred one week after his earlier confessions, and was made to hi8 military superior by a man who was "pretty easily led"* In view of the foregoing authorities and the circumstances*under which MacDonald's three confessions*were obtained, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the prosecution failed to rebut, by clear and convincing evidence, the presumption that the influence of the prior improper inducement continued, and that the subsequent confession-was a result thereof. -w< Although the defense did not object .to lieutenant Steele's testimony/tne “® confession, such testimony*formed a .vital part of the prosecution's case, and the question of its admissibility remains' open for consideration by the Board of Review (CM ETO 527. Astrella). The Board is of the opinion that this oral confession should similarly have been excluded from the evidence.	*
(c)	MacDonald, in his written confession (Pros.Ex .A) stated that he had the money in the basement and that after MacCrimnon took "about half of the bills", he restored his own share to the hiding place. When making his oral confession to Captain Rasmussen on 3 December, MacDonald told "where the money was”.* After Sergeants Riley and Whatley found 36 pounds in t'he cellar, MacDonald was informed that some of the money was found in the basement• He said that it was his "cache*.
*	t
Evidence that accused was found in possession of recently stolen property is not only admissible but mav also raise a nresumntion that he stole the property (MCM,' I928, par.112a, p.110; CM ETO 885, Van Horn), and possession of part of stolen property infers.theft of all of the property (CM ETO 952, Mosseri CM 157982, Acosta; CM I9203I, Allen:
CM ETO 1201, Pheil),.
*	r
The rule with.respect to admissibility of inculpatory facts is stated as follows:
(370)
"The rule la settled that, notwithstanding the inadmissibility of the confession, all facts discovered in consequence of the information given by tne accused, and which go to prove the existence of the crime of whieh he is suspected, are admissible as testimony, * * *, It is obvious that a search made as a consequence of information given by the accused must result in tne discovery of the inculpatory facts, as otherwise no testimony, either as-to the confession, or as to the search instituted in consequence of it, is admissible. In connection with tne discovery of tne alleged inculpatory facts, there should be proof, beyond a reasonable doubt, of the identity of the property, the body, or other fact. This is the ride with regard to larceny, and in other crimes, identification should be complete before admission of the inculpatory facts. But when the seerch reveals the inculpatory facts, • and there is conclusive identification of such facts, this necessarily brings with it the reception in evidence of the accused’s statements in giving tne information"
(2 Wharton's Criminal Evidence, lltn Ed,, sec.boo, pp,995»997,998)*
"Independent Facts and Evidence.- discovered through a confession inadmissible because impelled by hope or fear, are not therefore to be rejected. To illustrate» if one under excluding influences confesses a larceny, and thereon conducts an unsuccessful search for the stolen goods, the search equally with the coh-fession will be withheld from the jury) but should the goods be found, they may be exhibited to the jury end identified as those stolen, * • *. But the better confpp doctrine in authority probably In reason is. that when the confession is thus confirmed, simply so much of it as led to the finding, and, should the prisoner have been present at the search and finding, his -declarations and conduct during this period, or his declarations when he surrenders bach an article stolen, may be shown to the jury In connection.with the thing itself. The finding makes the truth of so much of the confession sufficiently evident" (2 Bishop's Hew Criminal Procedure - 2nd Ed, sec,1242, pp.lObl, lo62j (Underscoring supplied).
14
(371)
•Although a confession may he inadmissible as a whole because it was not voluntarily made* nevertheless the fact that it furnished information which led to the discovery of other evidence of pertinent facts will not be a reason for excluding such other evidence» end when such pertinent facts have thus been proved, so much of the accused's statement as relates strictly to those facts becomes admissible- For example, where an accused held for larceny said 'I stole the articles and I tore up a board in the floor of ay room and I hid them there,' the fact that the confession was improperly induced by promises or threats would not exclude evidence that the articles were discovered in tne place indicated by him, and after the introduction of such evidence, it would he proper to prove that the accused made the statement, 'I tore up a board in the floor of my room, and hid tnem there.'*
(MCM, 1928, par«H4j&* pp.114.115) (Underscoring supplied).
It is noted that the Manual for Courts-Martial has adopted the rule set forth by Bishop as the 'better conmon law doctrine". Therefore, those parts of his oral'confession,to Rasmussen and his later written confession, which related strictlyto inculpatory’facts discovered as a result of information furnished by the confession will be .admissible. The Inculpatory facts however must be proved by evidence other than that contained in the illegal confession I Cm Eru 12ul, Rheil). In the instant case the notes recovered in the basement were not before the court; They were not offered in evidence nor were they identified as those taken from the cash box. There was no other evidence whatsoever, aside from MacDonald's confession, to identify the property. His'statement that it was his "cache* does not prove that the notes found in the cache were part of the stolen ’property •* In the foregoing words of Wharton - "In connection with the discovery of the alleged inculpatory facts, there should be proof, beyond a reasonable doubt, of the identity of the property,• and "identification should be consists before admission of the Inculpatory facts*•
-	<	r	'
* The prosecution failed to prove tue inculpatory facts by evidence other than that contained in MacDonald's illegal confession. The ease under consideration is tnerefors distinguishable from the Phell case wherein, although tne notes were not introduced in evidence, it‘was held tnat the recovered currency was identified, although somewhat sketchily, as part of the stolen property and accordingly, that certain portions of accused's illegal confessions "relating strictly to tne identity of the pound notes" were admissible in evidence.	‘	•	-
- 15 -
(372)
(&)	is has been stated* tua evidence was conflicting &a to whether MacCrimnon orally confessed to Captain Rasmussen that he instigated the affair* persuaded MacDonald to commit the offense* and told him how to do it* His written statement (Eros«Ex*B; does not so indicate and implicate MacDonald only as far as the actual theft is concerned. However* according to his oral confession to Steele* MacCrisxoon suggested the theft to MacDonald* ~ the two men finally agreed that MacDonald should take the money "while the men were in town** and they later divided the proceeds. Also* Vroughton testified that MacCrimson told him MacDonald "robbed the post exchange", that he saw him with the money* and that he gave MaeCrinmon'part of the proceeds* The admissions and confessions by MacCrimmon wars inadmissible against MacDonald* It is a well established principle of law that the acts* statements* admissions or confessions of one conspirator done or made after the eoimaon design is accomplished* arc not admissible against another except when dons or made in furtherance of an escape* This fact does not;prevent the use of such admission or confession against the one who made it*
CM 176607 (1927; (Dig*0p*IAG., 1912-1940, sec*395 (12), p.209) (MCM, 1928,
per*114fi,» P*117t CM ETo 1052* Gaddies, et al).
» *
"When the cosmon enterprise is at an end* whether by accomplishment or abandonment'* no one of the conspirators is<permitted*	.
by any subsequent action or declaration of his own to affect the others (Wharton's
1	Criminal	Evidence, 11th Ed** Vol.2, see*
7U. P.1202)*
>• *
"The voluntary confession of a co-defendant or co-conspirator made after the comniasion of a crime or the termination of the conspiracy cannot be admitted against the other defendants where such confession was *, not made in their presence end'assented to bv tnem. even though the several defendants are being tried Jointly* This does not* however; necessarily preclude the use of the confession as evidence against the one who made it* (Evidence from American Jurisprudence , Civil and Criminal* aec*493*P«427)
(Underscoring supplied)*
i
There is no positive evidence that MacDonald was present when any statements or confessions which implicated him were made by MacCrimmon*
♦ *
In view of the foregoing authorities and for-the reasons stated* the Board of Review is of the opinion thaw the evidence is legally insufficient to sustain the findings of guilty and the sentence as to accused MacDonald.
-16-
I
(373)
6« With reference to MacCrimmon, the legal evidence shows that he made the highly significant statement to Stephenson that "I hit the P,X. last night for about a hundred pounds*. Be also told Wroughton on the evening of 28 November that "MacDonald had robbed the PX* and had given him part of the money* MacCrimmon "dug up" 24 pounds and gave the money to two officers* The sum of 10 pounds was found in Stephenson's mattress* a hiding place previously selected by this accused* The fact that the 34 pounds was part of the stolen property was established by MacCrimmon's statements to Wroughton and Stephenson* and by Ms own written statement (Pros*Ex*BJ* In view of the foregoing competent and eubatantial evidence, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as to accused MacCrimmon*
In reacning this conclusion the Board of Review for the reasons hereinbefore stated, has treated as inadmissible in evidence MacCriranon's oral confession to Captain Rasmussen, his written confession to Lieutenant Steele, and the admissions, confessions, acts and statements of MacDonald which implicated MacCrimmon* It is of the opinion that the legal evidence set fortn in tne preceding paragraph is, standing alone, "of such quantity and quality as practically to compel in the minds of conscientious and reasonable men the finding of guilty * * * C.M.127490 (1919)* * * * C.M* 130415 (1919)" (Dig.0p.JAG, I9I2-I93O, seo*1284» p.634).
7* The charge sheet shows that accused MacDonald was 25 years of age and was inducted 2 March 1943 for the duration of tne war plus six months* fie had no prior service* The charge sheet as to MacCrimmon shows that he was 35 year* of sgs, and that he was inducted 19 March 1943 for *h® duration of the war plus six months* His prior service was as follows 1 "Private -from 9 October 1930 to 14 April 1933 - Coast Artillery unassigned".
8* The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and offenses* No errors injuriously affecting tne substantial rights of accused MacCrimmon wera committed during the trial, but prejudicial and fatal error was committed as to accused MacDonald* The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legaly insufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as to accused MacDonald, and legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as to accused MacCrimmon.	,	,./
judge Advocate
£___Judge Advocate
.Judge Advocate'
17
1st Ind
TO. Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 2 4 MAY 1944 TO* Commanding General. ETCUSA, APO 887, U»S. Army.
1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War
as amended hy tne act of 20 August 193"/ (5° St at. 724 j 10 U.S.C. 1522) and aa further amended by Public Law 693. 77th Congress, 1 August 1942, is the record of trial in the case of Private HECTOR A. MacDONAID , (31326300) and Private First Class EVEETON N. MacCRIMiEN (0538571), both of Company *B«, 398th Engineer General Service Regiment,
2.	I concur in tne opinion of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support tne findings of guilty and the sentence as to accused MacDonald, and legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as to accused MacCrimmon. I recommend that the findings of guilty and sentence herein as to Private Hector A, MacDonald be vacated, and that all rights, privileges and property of which he may have been deprived by reason of such findings and sentence so vacated, be restored,
3.	Inclosed is a form of action designed to carry into effeet. the recommendations hereinbefore made. Also draft GdjO for use in promulgating tne proposed action. Please return the record of trial with required copies of GCMO.
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General,
3	Indst
Incl.lt Record of Trial -Ind.2t Form of Action Ind.3i Draft GCMO * 1
(Findings and sentence vacated as to Private MacDonald. GCMO 36, ETO, 28 May 1944)
#(375)
