#(339)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
ETO 397.
UNITED STATES v.
Private CHARLES A. SHARPER (32387560), Headquarters Company Detachment,
846th Engineer Aviation Battalion.
i 6 kYii 19-13
) EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES )	OF	SUPPLY,
) EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
)
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at ) Cambridge, Cambridgeshire,
) England, 4 March 1943. Sentence:
) Dishonorable discharge and ) confinement at hard labor for ) seven years. Federal Reformatory, ) Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and ENGLISH, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier above named has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	92nd	Article	of War
Specification:	In	that Private CHARLES A. SHAFFER
Headquarters Company Detachment, 846th Engineer Aviation Battalion, did, at Tiptree, Essex County,
England, on or about 7, February, 1943, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of ROSE E. PREEN, of No. 6, Ireland Villas,
Bull Lane, Tiptree, Essex County, England.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for the term of his natural life.
- 1 -
(340)
The reviewing authority approved only so much of the sentence as provided for dishonorable discharge and confinement at hard labor for seven years, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50g-. The approved sentence is legal (CM ETO 268, Ricks).
3.	There is but little dispute as to the facts. Mrs. Rose E. Preen, the mother of a child and apparently a mature woman (she gives her age as 31 years in her signed statement to the police at their investigation) though her age was not disclosed at the trial, was employed and lived with her mother in the village of Tiptree (R.8).
At about 10:00 P.M., on the night of 7 February 1943, she was returning home from a visit to her sister^ ^she met three soldiers and two sailors. In passing them one soldier said "goodnight" to her. She did not answer, but hearing footsteps behind her, looked and saw a soldier following her. She started to run but he caught her by the arm, and said he would like to get acquainted and put his arm around her waist. She told him twice to go back and struggled and screamed "and he must have given me a blow and I was knocked out" (R.6). She states that when she regained consciousness she found herself in a garden about a quarter of a mile from her home (R.ll). She was lying on the ground. Her undergarments were by her feet. An American soldier was kneeling by her and she had a bruise around her eye and three front teeth had been knocked out (R.7). The soldier lifted her over the hedge, they exchanged "goodnights" and she walked home. Her mother was upstairs in bed so she went to bed. Mrs. Preen didn’t go to work the next morning (R.8). That morning she complained to the police and turned over to them the coat she was wearing the night in question as well as the shoes and underclothes (R.9). She was also examined by the doctor on the morning of 8th February 1943, being brought to his office by the police. He found that she had fairly extensive bruises on the right eye and the central, upper and lateral teeth were knocked out. There were no bones broken. She had been struck hard, once above the eye and once above the mouth (R.12).	The
doctor found no bruises elsewhere on her body, but there was some swelling of her private parts and inside a "white substance which I believed to be a seminal fluid". A swab was taken from the vagina and given to the police (R.13)• "The woman was very distressed but could speak well." She walked into the surgery and walked home with her sister. The doctor was of the personal opinion that the woman was not rendered unconscious by the injuries but was probably dazed by the blows. He further gave his opinion that if she had struggled with all her force there would have been bruising of the thighs which she did not have (R.13). The spots on her coat and knickers were not there before she met the soldier (R.ll),
237326
(3U)
f'f 'irMTir I -y-j '--A • • >rd.
Accused made a signed statement admitted in evidence (R.25) as Exhibit 8, in which he states he met a woman whom he later found out was Mrs. Rose Preen, of 6 Ireland Villas, Bull Lane, Tiptree, on the night in question after leaving the Ship Public House, Tiptree, where he had spent the evening drinking, and turned around and followed her. That upon catching up with her she did not want anything to do with him in any circumstances, but he grabbed and assaulted her. This took place on the road. He then picked her up and lifted her over the hedge into a garden, put his overcoat on the ground and forced her to lie down. She pleaded with him and tried to scream and he prevented her from so doing. He "removed her knickers and committed'the sexual act which was entirely against her will."
He then lifted her over the hedge back'on the road. In accused's statement, he further declares that after the commission of the offense he offered to make retribution to Mrs. Preen for what he had done and at that tine acquired her name and address.
Accused accompanied the police officers and his commanding officer to the spot where he committed the alleged offense and pointed out the spot (R.26).
Accused at his own request wa3 sworn as a witness and in his testimony varies the story but little. He states that when he left the public house, "I saw this woman coming towards us. I was on my way home at the time, and I followed her." Mrs. Preen bit his finger and screamed when he put her arm around her and "that is when I first hit her, I think." He denies that she was unconscious at any time but states that "she talked perfectly sensible and she v/as pleading." "There were three civilians, I think, that walked past while she was screaming and they made no attempt to help her. She made no more attempts to struggle then. I v/alked down a piece and put her over the fence and took my coat off and layed it on the ground for her to lay on. She layed down and took her knickers off and layed down again. I can't say whether she enjoyed the thing or not but I do know there was no instances of struggle whatsoever made. She was in the customary position and I know she had been in the act before and it was complete in every way. The stains on the clothing were done by her own hands and if there was blood, it was by her hands" (R.29). Dr. James Davidson, of the London Police Laboratory, testified the stains found on the clothing of accused and the spots on the overcoat and knickers were blood of the "A" type and that the vaginal swab taken from the woman showed presence of seminal fluid (R.21).
A. Rape is the unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman by force and without her consent (MCM. 1928, p.165). The act of intercourse is admitted by the accused. That the act was accomplished by force and without the consent of the woman is substantially shovm by the admissions of accused and by the physical condition of the woman.
The only real conflict is in the testimony of Mrs. Preen that she was knocked unconscious by the blows in the face and the testimony of accused that she did not lose consciousness. This is a question
237826
(342)
of fact for the trial court to pass upon which it has done and the Board of Review is not inclined to question its decision thereon even if it had such right which it does not (CM 192609, Rehearing 1930; Dig. Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.407(2), p.259; CM ETO 82 McKenzie). The disputed testimony can have at most but little effect for if she were unconscious, she could not be presumed to have consented to the taking of any liberties with her person during such time and if she were not unconscious during this time, the testimony shows she was likely dazed and suffering from the effects of the blows and she might well have been apprehensive of further harm.
Accused in his statement introduced in evidence at the trial and by his own testimony identified Mrs. Preen as the woman assaulted and raped by him. He thereby identified himself as the "American soldier" (R.6) who accosted the victim. Mrs. Preen also identified accused as he sat in court as the soldier who struck her and raped her. (R.ll).
5.	The record is replete with leading questions and hearsay testimony, none of which, however, prejudice any substantial right of accused. In fact, the greater part of the hearsay testimony
.was elicited by defense counsel and was favorable to accused. The facts amply support the findings of the court. The sentence of the court under the 92nd Article of War upon conviction of the crime of rape committed in war-time must be either death or life imprisonment.
6.	Defense counsel objected to the introduction of accused's statement (Exs. 7 and 8) in evidence, on the ground that the civil and military officers obtaining the statement failed to inform
. accused at the time he gave the statement of the penalties which must be imposed by the Court should he be found guilty of rape under AW 92 (R.24, 25). Accused was warned that he was "not obliged to answer *** but the answers will be taken down in writing and put in evidence against him" (R.15); that "he need not answer any questions that would incriminate him" (R.18) and AW 24 was read him (Ex.7 and R.24). The court admitted the statement in evidence and overruled the objection. The statement y/as equivalent to a confession. The Court must therefore, have satisfied itself that it was voluntary in the sense it was not obtained by coercion or by promise of leniency or exculpation. (MCM, par.114, p.116). No suggestion or implication that it was involuntary is disclosed by the record and whether the statement was voluntary was the real test as to its admissibility.
7.	There is no requirement of law that a suspect or accused shall be informed as to the penalty or penalties which might be imposed upon him as a condition precedent to rendering his confession admissible in evidence in the event he is brought to trial for the commission of an offense indigenous to the facts disclosed by the confession. There was no error in overruling objections of defense
counsel.
,237826
(343)
j'iAi ;i;LH I lrt«.
8.	Attached to the record of trial is a petition signed by some 300 residents of the Parish of Tiptree, of the age of 18 years and upwards, asking for a very material reduction in the sentence imposed, also several individual letters, including one from the complaining witness, to the same effect. This apparently spontaneous appeal, headed by the local clergyman, appears to be directed, not so much towards the findings of the court as towards the severity of the sentence which the court was compelled to give. This condition has been alleviated by the action of the reviewing authority in reducing the sentence to seven years confinement at hard labor.
9.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense involved. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial.
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty and the sentence.
10.	Accused is 25 years of age. Pursuant to paragraph 5(c), General Order 37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942, as amended 4 December 1942, the execution of a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when the accused is sentenced to confinement of three years or more or for an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Rape is such an offense. The approved sentence is for seven years. Both conditions of the order are therefore met. A general prisoner may be returned to the United States for serving a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of rape. The designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, is correct.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
231826
33?
- 5 -
1st Ind,
WD., ETO Branch - JAGO.	1	®	J94$
TO:	Commanding	Officer,	Eastern	Base	Section,	APO	517,	U.S.	Army.
1.	In the case of Private Charles A. Shaffer, (32387560), Headquarters Company Detachment, 84.6th Engineer Aviation Battalion,
I concur in the foregoing holding of the Board of Review. You now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	THhen copies of the published order in this case are forwarded to this office, together with the record of trial which is herewith returned, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record of this case in this office is ETO 397. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the published order as follows:
(ETO 397).
Brigadier General,____/
Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations.
#(345)
