#(109)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General-with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1202
UNITED STATES )
' ) v.	)
)
Privates JAMES (Ml) RAMSEY -) (3U619781), and BENNIE L.	)
EDWARDS (3U618625), of Company ) B, 260th Quartermaster Service -) ' Battalion.	)
14 FEB 1944
EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS
Trial by G.C,M., convened at Kettering, Northamptonshire, England, li; December 1?U3.' Sentence: Each to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for life. United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING of the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1. The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
‘2. The accused were jointly tried upon the following Charges and Specifications;
RAMSEY
CHARGE: Violation of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	James (NHI) Ramsey,
Company B, 260th Quartermaster Service Battalion, and Private Bennie L. Edwards, Company B, 26oth Quartermaster Service Battalion, acting jointly, and in pursuance of a common intent, did at or near. Little Harrowden, Northamptonshire, England, on or about 0030, U December 19l;3, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Miss Lily Rebecca Garrod.
-1-
EDWARDS
(no)
CHARGE: Violation of the 92nd Article of War.
SpecificationIn that Private Bennie L. Edwards,
Company B> 260th Quartermaster Service Battalion, and Private James (Nil) Ramsey, Company B, 26oth Quartermaster,Service Battalion, acting jointly, and in pursuance of a common intent, did at or near, little Harrowden, Northamptonshire, England, on or about 0030 h December 1913, forcibly and feloniously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Hiss Lily Rebecca Qarrod.
Each pleaded not guilty to and each'was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence was introduced of two previous convictions of the accused, Edwards, by summary court each for absences without leave for two days in violation of Article of War 61. ‘No evidence of previous convictions of accused. Ramsey, was introduced. Each was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for the term of his natural life. The reviewing authority, by separate signed actions, approved the sentence as to each accused, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement bjrt withheld the order directing execution of the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War $0^.
3» The evidence for the prosecution is substantiality as follows:
Hiss Lily Rebecca Garrod, age 17,’a machinist in a tailoring factory living at Little Harrowden, near Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, left her home at 7*U0 p.m., 3 December 19h3» with Mrs. Mary (sic) Middleton, to dance at Wickstead Park Pavilion; The dance having been .postponed, the two -women took a bus into Kettering to see if there was a dance there (R6-7). On the way to Kettering, they met -two white American' soldiers with whom they were not acquainted and went with them to*the New Inn for a drink, Miss Garrod having "part of a small beer" (R7,lli-1$). At about 9 p.m., they left this inn and went to a "public house" where Miss Garrod again had "part of a small beer". They spent about two hours with these soldiers and then, at lOtliS p.m., no bus being available. Miss Garrod and Mrs. Middletcn started homeward, walking along the main road toward Little Harrowden (R7). At about midnight, having reached a point approximately one and one-half miles from -their homes and near to the Finedon Station turn, they saw approaching them two colored American soldiers,' one being tall, the other short.' Bis latter wore a "peak cap". The soldiers stopped, asked what was wrong, then "made a grab" at them. They were unable to pass the soldiers (R8,18-19,21), but both girls ran. Miss Garrod tripped in the brush after running a few yards. Mrs. Middleton
(Ill)
escaped from the two soldiers but for about 15 minutes she remained in the vicinity a few yards away (Rlii,19)« Miss Garrod struggled vigorously, shouted and kept saying, "Let me go," and "Please, don't" (R9,19). The smaller soldier (who wore the peak cap) kept hitting her in the face. The taller one at first stood by and did not hit her nor interfere with his companion. Then both soldiers seized her, the smaller one hitting her, grasping her about the throat and threatening to kill her (R9-10). He seemed like a madman (R13) and struck her in the eyes and neck about four times- while the tall one held her down. She struggled about five minutes when the taller soldier, aided by the smaller one who held her down, pulled off her knickers and, against her will, had sexual intercourse with her for about three minutes (RlO-11). One soldier had laid his coat on the ground so that Miss Garrod would not soil her coat (R13). Miss Garrod, in ' the meantime, kept pleading with them and attempted to kick them.
Then the smaller soldier had intercourse with her for about the same length of time (Rll). The taller soldier walked away after the smaller "had gotten on top of me" (Rllt.). After saying that he would help her find "her things", the smaller one asked her if she wanted "it" again and, being informed that she did not, he threatened to hit her. Thereupon, thinking it useless to struggle, she had intercourse with the smaller one again (Rll). She did not consent to any one of these three acts of intercourse and struggled to the best of her ability until the third act of intercourse when she felt it was useless. The taller soldier returned and told the short one that they ought to b‘e going.
Miss Garrod then started walking toward Little Karrowden and met "Mr. Masters" who had been summoned by Mrs. Middleton and whom she told what had occurred. Her stockings were ripped, -her clothing was tom and "full of blood" which had come from her "private parts", and she had lost her earrings and her brooch. Her menstrual period had been fully completed on 29 November... - Although the night had been a clear one,, neither Miss Garrod nor Mrs. Middleton could identify the accused (Rll-13,18-19).
Mrs. Middleton,, having stayed in the vicinity of the scene of action for about fifteen minutes, departed for help and secured the aid of Mr. Arthur Masters. The two then walked back and found Miss Garrod with "her eye.... all swelled so you couldn't see her eye, and her face... scratched and her hair .... rumpled and the stockings all laddered. She was very upset." She was crying and said she wanted to go home (R2o).
Uiis was about 1 a.m., U December. Asked which way her-assailants had gone, she replied that they had gone toward Kettering and also, "I don't think I could recognize them," and, "I-don't know what rcy father and mother will sayj they've had what they wanted." (R22-23). Mr. Masters' brother 'phoned the police and then "we took her to Wellingborough Police Station". (R23).
-3-
(112)
After receiving a telephone call at 12*50 a.m. U December from Mr. Masters concerning the alleged rape of Miss Garrod, Andrew M. Sykes, police sergeant, Wellingborough, immediately notified the military(police. Sergeant Willey of Finedon, and an Inspector Sherman.
He then patrolled the,road with Sherman in a patrol-car'and met Miss 1 Garrod, Mrs* Middleton and Mr. Masters. ,Miss Garrod was distressed, had a black eye, and her upper lip was badly swollen. "She complained i that she had been raped by two colored soldiers" (R23-21;). Mr. Masters agreed to convey Mi6s Garrod to Wellingborough for immediate examina- • tion by a doctor. Sergeant Sykes and Sherman continued to patrol the road towards Kettering, and found the two accused at 1*25 a jb. U December1,' on the Pytqhley Road Railway Bridge, Jist coming into Kettering borough,
3§- miles from .Little Harrowden and about 2 miles from the scene, of the . crime (R23-2U, 27-28). Having been told why they were wanted, the accused denied any connection with the crime (R2U)• No other soldiers had been passed on the road and, as they answered the description given by Miss Garrod, Sergeant Sykes took them to the Wellingborough police station (R27). It was then 2 a^m. of U December. .
Upon arrival at the station the accused were separated and when the military police arrived Sergeant Clarence F. Schreiber, 985th Military Police Company and Sergeant Sykes questioned accused Edwards. Sergeant Schreiber cautioned Edwards, telling him that he was not obligated to say anything "unless you.wish to", but that whatever he said might be given in evidence should there be a trial. This examination was oral. Accused Edwards- said, "I was there," and, "We-both did it.", He denied' hitting the girl but did. say that he raped.her, doing it one time (r24*25). (Before this testimony -^as given, the record of trial shows that the trial judge advocate cautioned the court in accordance with the'principles laid down in MCM, 1928, par. llJic, at p. 117, saying "that these statements made by one accused may noT be considered as evidence against the co-accused." (R25))	•
Ramsey,, similarly -warned, first denied any connection, with the affair "until the time of the examination by the U*S. Military Doctor". Within the space of_an hour after examining Edwards, accused Ramsey admitted participation saying,: "Xes, we were both.in it"; He denied hitting the girl, but "did say he was the first.Each accused admitted that he had "ravished" the girl,, stating that- this was done near Kettering Road, near little Harrowden. (R26-27). These admissions were voluntary. Shortly thereafter, 'the clothes of accused Ramsey were examined. There was a small spot of blood "on the inside of his pants, or on the bottom of his vest" (R27)» . 'It was described as "a smear of blood rather than if it were soaking into anything". (R28). What appeared .to be seminal fluid was also present "on the inside of his (Ramsey*s) long pants". Edwards* trousers also contained blood but not as much as Ramsey*s. (R32), , While it was noticeable that both accused had had spmething to drink, they both walked normally, their speech was coherent, and they were rational at all times. (R28).
(113)
At 2 a.m. U December, Dr. Alexander C.R. Yfalton, 1? Castle Street, Wellingborough, a doctor of medicine and a member of the Royal College of Physicians of London, at the request of the police, examined hiss Garrod. (Rl5). He testified that she "was about 5 feet 6 inches tall and-weighed 8-|- stones (U9 pounds). ' When he examined her she was in a "shocked" condition, pale and trembling, pulse rapid, hair disheveled. Her dress was tom down from the neck four or five inches. Her knickers were tom in front, her stockings badly tom, and her right shoe was unlaced. Her knickers were soaked with blood between the legs, especially at the back of her knickers, and her rollon belt was bloodstained at the back. Her face was badly bruised, the left side being swollen, and h'er left eye was closed completelyj her nose was swollen and bruised with blood trickling down the nostrils.
The upper lip was badly bruised and swollen. Several scratches were on her right forearm and wrist, and a superficial laceration a halfinch long on the ring finger of her right'hand just below the nail, and two small blood blisters on the pad of her finger, "as if clenched between teeth possibly". Below her left elbow was a bruise, superficially lacerated and about two inches in diameter. Examining her sex-organs> he found the hair of the pubic region matted with blood, the labia majora swollen, and the vulva area "rather sore looking".
A good deal of fresh blood was exuding from the vulva from two recent tears in the hymen which was well formed. An examination of the vaginal fluid was'made by Dr. Walton and he "found seminal fluid from a human individual, from one which would be found after intercourse from the male". It was his professional opinion that Miss Garrod "was tight and virginal" prior to'the incident and that she had been raped and assaulted with violence, which .assault’and rape had ‘definitely taken place within a few hows before his examination. Miss Garrod was a strong, well-built girl and from the position of the blood on her knickers and body-belt, he presumed she had been lying on her back. (R.16-17).	’	'	\
U« Captain Meyer Supornick, 985th Military Police Company,' stationed at Wellingborough, saw the two accused in the Wellingborough police station between 1 and 2 a.m. on lj. December. Both had full possession of their faculties. After.warning them of their rights under AW 2U, Captain Supornick questioned them in the presence of Detective Sergeant Meacock of the Wellingborough Police, and Sergeant* Schreiber (R28-29). He again warned the accused that they could remain silent, that anything*they said might be used against them in the event of trial, and that any statements'made by them would be voluntary.. After asking them if they had any questions, statements of accused were reduced to writing, signed and sworn to by accused Ramsey (Pros.Ex.2) and by accused Edwards (Pros.Ex.3)* These were admitted in evidence without objection (R30).
-5-
(1H)
' • * - \ poetised Ramsey, in his written Statement, said that he and
Edwards were walking along the road to Kettering some time after
11 p.m., when they met two girls walking in the opposite direction.
Edwards grabbed one of the girls but the other ran away. He took
her to the side of the road while she shouted, and yelled "Let me
go". When Ramsey went up to them Edwards "was down on her and she * '
was struggling"'. He pulled-Edwards off the’girl and had intercourse
with her while she stlil struggled. The girl hit him but "if I hit
her I do not remember". Ramsey got up and Edwards got on her and
had intercourse-with her, while the girl struggled and cried. ' Ramsey .
walked up the road, returned again to find Edwards "still on the girl".
He pulled him bp and said "Let's go". Edwards said, "All right, X am
coming now." The girl lost her shoe, and both accused helped her look
for it. They then left the girl And started walking to Kettering
until they were picked up by the police. Ramsey said he did not have
any blood on his clothes when he left Kettering on 3 December 19U3j
that he was wearing a garrison cap and that Edwards was wearing a
peaked service cAp (Pros.Ex.2).	*
Accused'Edwards,•in his written statement, stated that on 3 December he and accused Ramsey were walking to Kettering'and when within about two miles of there they met two girls. Ramsey said!’"Let's take them*'! Both "went for them".
"We missed the el*jer girl and then we both took the young, one. We put her on the grass by the side V of the road. She was shouting and'struggling. Ramsey . slapped her. Ramsey had intercourse with the girl. I stood nearby. As soon as he had finished I had intercourse with the girl. She was still fighting and I hit her in the face. She slapped my face.
When I had finished I got up and the girl had lost her shoes and she asked me to find them. I found them.
The girl then said, 'Will you do it again'. She laid down and I .then had intercourse again’with her. :
I had no blood on my clothing when I left Kettering on Friday 3 December 19h3»	'	'
After I had had intercourse the second time with the girl Ramsey and I. started off to Kettering and we were stopped by the Police in a. car near the Railway Bridge at Kettering.
I was wearing a peaked cap. Ramsey was wearing a garrison cap."	(Pros.Ex.3).
-6-
- • -	(115)
3* The accused, having been advised of ttheir rights elected to remain silent. The defense submitted" no evidence.
6.	a. "Rape is the unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman . ” by force and without her consent.* Any penetration, however slight, of a woman* s genitals is sufficient carnal knowledge,'whether emission occurs or riot.
# * * * Force rind want of consent are indispensable in rape; but the force involved in the act of penetration is alone sufficient where there is in fact rto consent" (MCM, 1928, par.lU&b, p.l65).
The above elements are essential to sustain a case under ttas charge. That carnal knowledge of Miss Garrod was obtained is evident not or£Ly from the testimony of Miss Garrod but from that of Dr. Walton who examined her within a relatively short time after the commission of the 'offense. The hymen was tom and male seminal fluid was found in the vaginal tract. That the act was accomplished by force is conclusively shown by the undisputed evidence of the physical condition of Miss Garrod found by the examining physician, by the testimony of Miss Garrod and by the admissions of the accused (CM ETQ 90, Edmonds;
CM ETO 832, Waite; CM ETO 6H, Porter). There was also blood exuding" from the vagina caused by abrasions of the hymen and Miss Garrod testified that her menstrual period had ended about six days before the alleged act took place..
That there was no consent to the first two acts of intercourse, and that Resistance to the extent that Miss Garrod was able to' resist was amply proved by her testimony, that of her friend, Mrs. Middleton, and by thte signed statements of both accused. Although weighing only 119 pounds. Miss Garrod did not offer "mere verbal protestations and a pretense bf resistance" (See MCM, 1928, par. lU8b, p.165) but actively resisted by hitting the accused, by kicking at tEem, and by active force in attempting tb prevent the accused from gaining access. Only when she realized that further resistance was of no avail did she cease, and this occurred after both accused had raped her and one of the accused was about’to repeat the act of intercourse. Both the elements of force used by the accused and lack of consent in the legal' sense were proved by uncbntrhdicted evidence.
*b. The accused were not identified by Miss Garrod or Mrs. Middleton, the only persons other than the accused at the scene of the offense, but their identity was definitely proved by circumstantial evidence concerning the comparative size of the accused, the "peaked cap" of one of them,- the mud on accused )tamsey»s coat which had been placed on the ground to avoid soiling Miss Garrod*s clothes, the blood on the trousers of both accused and the 'evidence of seminal fluid in the same location on aocused Ramsey's trousers. These evidentiary
■7-
facts, coupled -with the prompt apprehension of .both accused in the near vicinity and the discovery by the police of nc/soldiers in the search instituted immediate^, after the crime had been committed, substantiate all that the accuse^lntneir statements* It is elementary that identity may be proved by circumstantial as well as by direct evidence (See particularly CM ETO 969, Davis, at pp.22-23)• Apart from the statements of the accused, the proof is 'Ample that the accused committed the rape charged. '
c. Important as confessions always are, the confessions in the . case at hand have the common fault of containing statements which, if permitted, are damaging to the other joint-accused. The statements of each accused, both oral and written, were made after the common design had been accomplished and not made in the furtherance of any escape (See KCH, 1928, paillhc, p.117). Hence, the statement of one under such circumstances is-not admissible to prove the guilt of the other (101,
1928, par.76, p.6l).	But this fact does not invalidate the statement
with reference to the one making it (tOI, 1928, par.lllic, unnumbered par. 3, p.117)• Thus, both statements, being voluntarily made and after proper warning, were legally admissible to prove the guilt of the accused making it. The trial judge advocate in this case was cognizant of the rule and, when evidence of statements made by one of the accused was initially presented, he warned the court "that these statements made by one accused may not be ‘considered as evidence against the co-accused"(25). Having been thus warned, the rights of the accused were properly protected and no prejudicial error exists. (CM ETO 72, Stump et al; CM ETO 80U, Ogletreej CM ETO 895* Fred A. Davis et alj CM ETO 10^2, Geddies et al).
That the corpus delicti had been sufficiently proved to warrant the admission of the confessions contained in the statements of the two accused, is clear from the summary of the evidence above (CM 202213, Liallon) .
7* The charge sheet shows that accused Ramsey is 20 years' of age and that he' was inducted 28 January 19k3j that accused Edwards is 23 years of age and that he was inducted 23 January 19U3, each at Camp Shelby,. Mississippi for the duration of the war plus six months. Neither accused had prior service.	...
8. The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of. the persons and of the offenses. -No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. ‘The Board of Review is of the‘opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and-the sentences as to each accused.’ The penalty for rape under Article of War 92 is death or imprisonment for life, as a court martial may direct. A sentence to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for life, for violation of Article.of ¥ar 92, is authorized. (CM ETO 709, Lakas).
- 8 -
(117)
9.	Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of rape (AW U2j UCM, 1928, par.90a, p.80j 35 Stat. llU3> 18 U.S.C. U57j 3$ Stat. 1152, 18 U.S.C. 567)» ancf the designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as a place of confinement for both accused, is authorized (70 Cir.291, Sec.V 3a and b, 10 November 19U3).
(CONCURRING AND. DISSENTING) Judge Advocate
>Judge Advocate I
uds?e Advocate
CONCURRING AND DISSENTING HOLDING RITER, Judge Advocate
1 4 FEB 1944
I	concur in the conclusions of the majority of the Board of Review that no errors injuriously affecting the rights of the accused were committed at the trial and that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty. However, I do not agree that the sentences upon conviction of an offense under the 92nd Article of 77ar may include dishonorable discharge and total forfeitures, liy reasons are set forth in extenso in my concurring and dissenting holding in CM ETC) 709, Lakas. I have no cause to change my opinion therein expressed. '
- 9 -
(118)
1st Ind,
TO, Branch Office TJAG., -with ETOUSA. ^ ^	1944	To.	commanding
Officer, Eastern 3ase Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 517.
1.	In the case of Private JAPES (MU) RAISEY (3I461978I) and Private BEHKIE L. EDWARDS (31618625), both of Company B, 260th Quartermaster Service Battalion, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence as to each, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War you now • have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	I deem it advisable to speak of two matters of importance in this case:
a.	One member of the court trying the accused, while not believing in the death penalty in the case of rape, without noticeto other members of the court or to the trial judge advocate, kept his place on the court, voted upon the guilt of the accused, and disclosed his belief concerning this matter for the first time when the court was closed to vote upon the sentence. This occurred despite the fact that when the prosecution asked "If any member of the court is aware of any facts which he believes to be a ground of challenge by either side against any member, it is requested that he state such facts," another member of the court promptly stated that for religious and moral reasons he was opposed to the death sentence in such cases and was excused and withdrew from the court. Prior to this, the trial judge advocate had read Article of War 92 to the court and had stated that he would ask for the maximum punishment in this cage (R3). This action by the unknown member was highly unethical and is to
be vigorously condemned. Appropriate procedure to avoid a repetition of such a pernicious practice is suggested in Paragraph Id, Circular No.l (Military Justice), Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations, 1 January 19U1*.
b.	Where accused are charged jointly, as in this case, it is not necessary To frame two charges turning one accused as having jointly acted with the other and, in the second charge sheet, reversing the order of their names and charging in the same manner. While not erroneous, the simpler practice is preferred. (See KCM, 1928, p.237. Appendix U,f.)
There is also an undue duplication of the investigating officer's reports of witnesses examined by him in the form of carbon copies of the same material, one for each accused. Since these reports were similar in every respect, the original would have sufficed.
- 1 -
(119)
3.	When copies of the-published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1202. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order (ETO 1202). Since this was a joint trial only one published order should be issued. (See Military Justice Circular No.5>, Branch OTJAG, U October 19U3> par.13 for proper practice on joint trials).
^E. C. McNEIL,	'	•
Brigadier General, United States Army\
Assistant Judge Advocate General. '

#(121)
