#(49)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review. ETO 506.
UNITED STATES
▼.
Private JAMES <NMI) BRYSON (34302547), Company "A", 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion.
) EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES ) OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER <F ) OPERATIONS.
I Trial by G.C.M., convened at Ipswich, Suffolk, England,
19 May 1943. Sentence; Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at ) hard labor for five years.
) Penitentiary.
HOLDING by the BOARD OP REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier above named has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification;
CHARGE; Violation of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification; In that Private James Bryson,
Company "A*, 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, did at Dies, Norfolk, England, on or about 1 May 1943, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation kill one Cyril Easto, 15 Stanley Road, Dies, Norfolk, England, a human being, by cutting him on the throat with a knife.
He pleaded not guilty to the Charge and Specification, and was found guilty of the Specification, except the words "with malice aforethought, deliberately and with premeditation", of the excepted words, not guilty, and not guilty of the Charge but guilty of violation of the 93rd Article of War. Evidence of one previous conviction for failure to take prophylactic treatment was introduced. He was sentenced to
50 G
- l -
(50)
ba dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for ten years*
The reviewing authority approved the sentence but reduced the period of confinement to five years? designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50k
PROSECUTION'S EVIDENCE
3* The accused was a member of Company "A", 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion (R*21) which was stationed on 1 May 1943 at or near Eye, Suffolk, England (R*20). Cyril Leonard Charles Easto, hereafter designated deceased, was an unmarried British civilian, aged 36 years, who on and prior to said date resided at Diss, Norfolk, England (R.28,29). He was employed as a garage hand by W* D« Chitty Ltd*, at Diss (R*29)* At the age of 12 he had suffered an amputation of his left leg at a point 7 inches below the knee (R.28)* The excised part of the leg was replaced with a wooden peg (R.7)•
4* Victoria Road is a public highway, extending from the shopping center of Diss in an approximate easterly direction* Park Road is & westerly extension of Victoria Road* Mere Street extends north and south from the intersection of Victoria Road and Park Road? it widens as it approaches Victoria Road and forms an inverted "V" mouth* Within the mouth thus formed is an "island", slightly elevated above the street surface upon which is erected a briok structure occupied as a W.V.S. Canteen. The "island" is surrounded by curbing and is triangular shaped*
Approximately 3/5 miles east of the "island", Victoria Road is crossed at right angles by an elevated railway bridge. The camp of the 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion was on 1 May *1943# located on Victoria Road at Brome (R.29) a considerable distance east of the railway bridge*
(Exhibit 5, Prosecution).
5* Jesse Lionel Cobb and Harry Leach, British civilians and residents of Diss, at about lit12 P.M., on 1 May 1943, were at the "triangle" above described* It was very dark at that hour. Cobb testified that as he was about to cross Park Road to his home, deceased coming from the opposite direction, bumped into him with the remarkt "Somebody just hit me in the neck"* Cobb recognized deceased by his voice. Deceased collapsed to the ground in a few seconds (R*7) without speaking further* Cobb dispatched his son, who had appeared on the scene, for the police. When the police arrived they flashed a torch and Cobb saw a gash on the left side of
2
(51)
deceased’s neck. ‘Blood was streaming from it. The police gave first aid until the appearance of the ambulance 25 minutes later (R.8,12) when deceased was placed in the ambulance for removal to the Emergency Hospital at Eye (R.10). He died enroute (R.10) and upon arrival at the hospital, soon after mid-night 1-2 May 1943, was pronounced dead by the doctor (R.11).
Inspector George William Leybura of the Norfolk Constabulary stationed at Dias testified that he arrived at the scene of the homicide shortly after 11*20 P.M., on 1 May 1943. He had been preceded by a police constable who was administering first aid treatment upon the Inspector’s arrival (R.12). There was an interval of 25 minutes from the arrival of the Inspector to the time the ambulance appeared and deceased was taken away (R.12). In the roadway facing Mere Street he found a large envelope laying about 3 feet from the curb and 5 or 6 yards from deceased (R.12). On the envelope were the following inscriptions, written in ink* "Sgt. T. C. Bryson - 34119870 -CHEFS- APO 989, c/o Postmaster, Seattle, Washington" (in two places on the envelope); "From Pvt. James Bryson, Co.A., 827th Eng. Bn. Avn., APO 527, c/o Postmaster, New York City, N.T" (in two places on the envelope) and "From Pvt. James Bryson, Co.A, 827" (in one place on the envelope). Contained in the envelope at the time of its discovery were* (1) a photograph of a colored United States soldier which was contained in an envelope bearing the following inscriptions* "From Pvt. James Bryson, Co.A, 827th Engr. Bn. AVN, APO 527 c/o Postmaster, New York City, N.Y* and "Sgt. t H A D E Bryson, 34119870, APO 989, c/o Postmaster, Seattle, Washington"; (2) an Army Institute Catalog ’What would YOU like to learn*; (3) an envelope bearing the inscription "The Writers* Pocket of British Stationery - high class paper at a convenient price". The exterior envelope and its contents were produced in court and uere identified by Inspector Leyburn as being the articles found by him at the scene of the homicide and delivered by witness to Detective Inspector William Garner of the Norfolk Constabulary. The same were admitted in evidence without objection; were marked "Exhibit 1, Prosecution" and are a part of the record of trial (R.13). Witness testified that the photograph which was contained in the envelope (Exhibit 1, Prosecution) is a picture of accused (R.13).
Deceased was lying on the pavement facing Park Road with his feet in the gutter and his head near an iron railing which surrounds the W.V.S. Canteen (R.12). The wound was on the left side of the neck and was about three inches long (R.12). There were large splashes of -blood from the curb facing Mere Street across the "island" - a distance of 5 yards - to where deceased was found (R.14). Witness stated his opinion that deceased had been struck while standing on the curb facing Mere Street and had staggered across the "Island" to the opposite curb on Park Road (R.14). Deceased did not speak after his first statement to witness Cobb (R.8,14).
50G
-3-	241104
(52)
t.
Dr. David Hamilton Fulton, pathologist at the Peterborough Memorial Hospital testified that he performed the post-mortem on deceased on 2 May 1943 (R.15) . Deceased* s body was identified by his brother. Warrant Officer Alexander W* A. Easto, in the presence of Dr. Pulton, Inspector William Gamer, Norfolk Constabulary, Sgt. Stephen J. Graham, assigned to the office of the Provost Marshal General, ETOGSA, and others (R.15,27)• Dr. Fulton testified that deoeased had a wound in his neck beginning 3 inches beneath his left ear and running horizontally to about one inoh below the chin. The edges of the wound were cleanly cut. There was a good deal of blood on the man's chest, abdomen and on his right hand. There were no other wounds or bruises. Witness was of the opinion that the neck wound was caused by "a sharp instrument such as a knife" (R.15). The deepest part of the wound was at the back and in front it was superficial. In the back of the wound the sternocleido mastoid muscle was divided and the wound extended down to the vertebrae column. A small chip of bone had been removed at the upper surface of the fifth cervical vertebrae* The left internal jugular vein had been cleanly divided, but the carotid artery had escaped entirely. The larynx was undamaged (R.16). The Doctor expressed the opinion that "it would have needed considerable force to drive the point of a weapon and remove part of the bone", and he also thought "what happened was that the weapon was pushed into the neck almost at right angles and was drawn straight forward. The neck was pierced by the weapon and drawn forward" (R.16). Death was due to a hemorrhage from the divided Jugular vein (R.l6). Witness further stated his opinion to be, that the person delivering the blow "was probably standing in front of the man that was stabbed because had he been standing behind him and reached around to do it, I would expect the wound would come around the neck more. It seemed it must have been done from the front. ** If the knifgfras very sharp, it wouldn’t take much force, and if it was blunt it would take more force" (R.16). The deceased must have been standing upright when the blow was inflicted (R.17).
Detective Inspector William-Gamer of the Norfolk Gonstabulary stationed at Norwich,* identified "Exhibit 1, Prosecution" as being the envelope and contents delivered to him by Inspector Leybum on 2 May * 1943 (R.17). He identified the photograph contained in the envelope as being that of the accused (R.18). Witness testified he was in charge of the police investigation of the death of deceased (R.18), and in the course of such investigation had occasion to speak to accused. At 3*20 P.M., on 2 May 1943» witness and Lieut. 0*Keil of the P.M.G. Department, U.S* Army, interviewed accused at the camp of Co.A, 827th Engr. Av, Bn. Accused was properly warned of his rights. He denied all knowledge of the homicide (R.18). Subsequently on Tuesday, 4 Kay 1943, accused appeared before Inspector Garner, Lieut. O’Neil and Sgt. Stephen G. Graham at the Diss Police Station. Witness again warned accuse* of his rights, but he persisted in his denial and then witness informed accused that he (inspector Gamer) "wa3 not satisfied with the statement and didn’t believe it, and he should think it over until you were in a position to prove different" (R.18). At 2*30 P.M.,
4
(53)
on the same date, witness was told accused wanted to see him, and upon going to him said: "I understand you want to see me, Bryson" and accused replied: ."lea, sir, I want to tell you the truth about what happened on Saturday"* Before accused made any further remarks the Inspector cautioned him as to his rights and "read to him our caution, and wrote it down and he himself signed it" (R.18)* This caution was the following:	"I have been told that I am not obliged to say anything
unless I wish to do so and that anything I say will be taken down in writing and may be used in evidence" (R*20) * Accused then made his statement "of his own free will" and there were no promises made (R.20), The Inspector then "took It down in writing and handed it to him and he read it, and he said there was nothing he wanted to add". Accused signed both pages of the statement and also affixed his signature at the conclusion of. the warning, - he signed three times. Accused made his statement in the presence of. Sgt. Graham and Lieut. Harder (R.19)• The confession, "Exhibit 2, Prosecution", without objection, was admitted in evidence and read to the Court. The following is a true and correct copy of same:
*	County	Police	Station,	Diss.
4th May 1943.
James Bryson saitb,
*1 have been told that I am not obliged to say anything unless I wish to do so & that anything I say will be taken down in writing and may be used in evidence*
(Signed) James Bryson I wish to tell the truth now about what happened on Saturday night. After I left the pub I came on down towards the comer, I was picking my teeth with my knife as X had been eating fish & the blade was open. Just below the comer I met a man, a civilian. He spoke to me first and said •Hey, have you had a good time tonight, do you want to have some fun with a girl* I said *Ies* and he said *come along with me*. I turned around and just went back up the street with him. He stopped at the corner and grabbed at my flys and pulled them open and grabbed my penis & testicles.
I was surprised & got angry and pulled my knife out of my coat pocket with my right hand and struck him in the neck with it. He let go of my privates and I walked away. When I struck him my envelope was under my right arm. When I left him the man was still standing there. I struck him to protect myself I did not mean to kill him.
When I got nearly to the little bridge near the pub near the golf course I missed my envelope and turned around to go back and look for it,
50(5
241104
(54)
I met two american soldiers and spoke to them and told them I had lost my pass and picture and that I had cut a man and had to go back and find it* I also told them my (End of page one) name and my number of my own free will and that I was in Company "A" 827th. After I got to the first filling station on the left I turned around & walked straight back to camp. I called in at the cookhouse and saw James L. Face and James Barber. I gave Pace a black handled knife but that was not the knife I used on the man.
The knife I used on the man was the white handled knife which the guard took from me on Sunday & it is the same knife which Inspector Gamer showed me on Sunday, the knife I bought at Eye.
If the civilian had not spoken to me I should not have spoken to him, and if he had not caught hold of my penis and testicles I should not have done anything to him. I did not tell you the truth at first because I was kind of nervous and upset. I am sorry for all the trouble I have caused but if the man had not interfered with me it would not have happened.
What he did to me made me very angry and for a moment I did not know what I was doing. The knife was open in my pocket because I had been picking my teeth with it until I met this man.
This statement has been read to me and it is true. There is nothing I wish to add to it,
(Signed) James Bryson
Statement taken & written by Detective Inspector W. Gamer in the presence of Lieutenant E. A.
Harder, Company "A" 827th Engineering Aviation Battn. & Stephen J. Graham, Agent, I.D. ,P.M.G.
U.S. Forces. "
There was presented to Inspector Gamer a eingle-bladed knife, with the name "Charles Bratson & Son, Sheffield" on the blade which is approximately inches long. It has an imitation composition pearl handle with three rivets. The widest part As about £ inch. The witness identified it as the knife which had been handed to him on 2 May 1943 and testified he showed it to accused, who said it was his knife and he had bought it three days earlier in Eye for five shillings. Subsequently accused was shown the knife and stated to witness that "it was the knife he was picking his teeth with and stabbed the deceased wiun".(E.19)• Without objection the knife, marked "Prosecution Exhibit 3", was admitted in evidence.
6
(55)
Lieutenant Raymond G. Dozier. Jr.. 829th Eng. Avn. Bn., testified that his battalion on 1 May 1943 was stationed at Eye next to 827th Eng. Avn. Bn. On that date he was O.D. for both battalions. Upon request of Lieut. Bell, Adjutant of 827th Eng. Avn. Bn., the witness at about 11*30 A.M., Sunday 2 May 1943> took accused into custody. Before placing him in the cell, witness searched accused, and took from his person "a knife similar to *Prosecution Exhibit 3,B (R.21) .
Sgt. Stephen J. Graham. I.D., P.M.G, U.S.Forces, testified that he was present on 3 May 1943 at the camp of the 827th Eng. Avn. Bn., when two statements were taken from accused - being accused*s second and third statements. Before the second statement was obtained accused was warned of his rights, and in such statement he denied all connection with the killing of deceased and stated he was not at the scene of the crime (R.22). Upon being shown "Exhibit 2, Prosecution", the Witness declared that it was accused*s third statement; that witness was present when accused signed it; that accused, prior to making this statement was informed that any statement was purely voluntary, no benefits could be promised, it might be used in evidence against him and it was being taken down in writing (R.23) • The statement was read to accused by Inspector Garner before accused signed it.
"Prosecution Ex.3" was shown Sgt. Graham and he identified it as the knife given to him by the O.D. at the time Bryson was brought in. Witness showed the knife to accused who said it was the knife he stabbed the man with (R. 23) •
"Prosecution Ex.1" (being the exterior envelope, photograph, interior envelope, Manual of the Army Institute and package of writing paper) was identified by the witness. He showed the articles to accused at time accused made his last statement -"Exhibit 2, Prosecution" - who admitted that they were his property and stated he had lost them in Diss (R.24)•
Pvt. Calus C. Funderburk. Co.A, 827th Eng. Avn. Bn., testified he knew accused; that on the evening of 1 May 1943# he, with accused, visited Eye and then went to Diss. The two soldiers got off the bus in Diss at the show - "Cinema". They then went to the post-office, visited a chip-shop, and a public house. Leaving the latter place they went to another public house "on the comer" and stayed there until it closed, when they went to the M.P. truck which stood about 200 yards from the last mentioned public house (R.24).
At the truck, witness lost Bight of accused and did not know what had become of him. The two soldiers drank beer and cider - no hard liquor during that evening. Upoh having his memory refreshed by a prior written statement made by him, witness stated that it was about 10*30 P.M., when they reached the truck. Funderburk, upon
241104
being shown "Exhibit 1, Prosecution", stated it looked like an envelope accused carried under his am during the evening and which he had at the public house'(R.25)•
T/5 Jimmie L. Pace. Co.A, 827th Eng. Avn. Bn., stated that he saw accused in the camp kitchen at about 12*30 A.M., 2 May'194-3 when "he came in and asked for something to eat, some coffee or something". Accused spoke normal and was very quiet daring the course of the conversation (R.27)•
Staff Sergeant Todd S. Johnson. Jr.. Co.C, 829th Engr. Avn. Bn., testified that he mot an American colored soldier about 12*15 o’clock on the morning of 2 May 1943. Witness and Corporal Harry C. Sanders, Co.C, 829th Engr. Avn. Bn,, had traveled on a railroad train from Norwich to Diss arriving at the latter point about midnight. They commenced to walk to the company camp which is located east of Diss on the opposite side of Victoria Road from the camp of the 827th Engr. Avn. Bn. When they were about l£ miles east of Diss this colored soldier walked up and asked them if they were American soldiers. Upon receiving an affirmative answer the colored soldier said he had just cut a man’s throat. He said he had lost something and had to go back to find it and he voluntarily gave his name, rank, serial number and outfit. Witness remembered the soldier said he belonged to the 827th. He didn’t appear drunk but he had had something to drink* He was calm and spoke in a clear intelligible voice (R.29,30,31)* Defense counsel stipulated that it was accused who had the conversation with witness (R.30).
Mrs. Eileen Youngman testified that she was the wife of the licensee of the "Cock Inn" which is located on Denmark Street in Diss. She identified accused in court and stated that the last time she saw him was in "my own house" at about 8 P.M., Saturday evening 1 May 1943. He was with four other soldiers. He had a "gin and chaser" and that was all. All of the soldiers seemed "quits right" and accused did not appear to have been drinking. The soldiers left before 8*30 P.M., Accused had an envelope similar to "Exhibit 1, Prosecution" and took it with him when he left (R.31,32)•
It was stipulated in open court between the Trial Judge Advocate and defense counsel that 'Corporal Harry 'C. Sanders. Co.C,
829th Eng. Avn. Bn., if in court and sworn, would testify substantially as did Staff Sergeant Todd S. Johnson, Jr.
DEFENSE’S EVIDENCE
6.	The defense presented witnesses who testified as follows*
Pvt. Fred Rogers. Medical Section, Co.C, 827th Engr. Avn. Bn., stated that he had met deceased about 12 April 1943 in Diss. Witness
- 8 -
(57,
had been to a public house and when it closed he went to his bicycle.
He was in the middle of a street and a civilian approached him (at this point the Trial Judge Advocate conceded that this conversation was between the witness and deceased), and asked, "What’s the trouble?" Witness replied: "I have a flat tire". The civilian walked with a limp - he had to pick up his leg. He had been talking to some soldiers and a girl and when he left they all said, "Good night, Dick", Deceased asked witness if he were out looking for a girl friend, and witness replied: "les". Deceased said: "You didn’t have any luck?" Witness answered: "No, sir" Deceased then asked witness if he were hot matured and witness replied: "To a certain extent". Deceased said: "I bet you have a big penis". Witness: "I have a pretty good sized one". The deoeased then asked witness to take his penis out and let him see it to which the witness asked him what he thought he was. Deceased reached down at witness*s pants and grabbed his penis. He did not open the fly of the trousers, but grabbed hold of the penis through the pants. Witness pushed him away. Deceased asked witness if he would like a girl friend and said he would take him where he could get one. He walked along with witness, explaining to witness that some people have passion in their throats and informed witness if he went along with him, witness dould get relief. Witness told deceased to get away from him, but deceased grabbed his arm and wanted to take him up the road. Witness said he was not that kind, but deceased begged witness four or five times to go with him to which witness replied: "No". The M.P. truck came along and picked up witness (R.33 and 34)*
Phillips Charles Nash, testified that his address was 28 Royden Road, Diss, England; that he was an apprentice mechanic at W. D. Chitty, Ltd; that he did not know accused, but knew deceased because he worked with him and that deceased suggested things to him. On several occasions deceased wanted to interfere with him "but not being that type of boy I just didn’t have anything to do with him. He certainly wanted to interfere with my body". Deceased made sexual advances to witness but once and then witness "made it quite plain to him". He said: "Can’t I just feel you?" (R.35).
Paul Edward Cook, stated his age was 15 years and lived at Horsham - 10 miles from Diss. He also worked for W. D. Chitty, Ltd., in Diss, was a fellow workman of Phillips Charles Nash, and was acquainted with deceased. Deoeased made improper advances to witness about six or seven times within the past year while witness was at work; the last one was around January - about three months ago.
Deceased asked witness to go into the works laboratory and some words were used such as "toss one off". Witness knew the meaning of such words (R.36,37)•
It was stipulated that if one Nathan James Watllng were sworn he would testify that he was of the age of 17 years and that within a period of 18 months prior to trial the deceased, Easto, had also solicited him to indulge in unnatural and indecent practices.	£5''(
24110]
- 9 -
tir <
The Defense announced that the accused would make an unsworn statement, that his rights had been fully explained to him and that he understood that he had three options* The court then received accused’s unsworn statement as follows*
"Sir* On Saturday night. May the 2nd, I was in the pub that bight and I came out and when when I came out I set this gentleman, Mr* Cyril, and he said ’Hey, did you have a good time tonight*, and I said *No*, and he said ’Do you want a girl*, and I said *1 don’t mind’, and he said ’Come with me*, and I said * Alright*, and I turned around and went up the street, and we got to the comer, and he said ’Go this way1, and we went up the road a little ways and he stopped, and 1 stopped, and he turned around and grabbed me by the fly and then he grabbed my penis and testicles and squeezed on them, and I had my knife open and I struck his, and I thought about my papers, and I turned around and went to hunt for them, and couldn’t find them, and went to camp and went to bed*"
(R.38).
7* There are several questions with respect to the admission of evidence ifrhich require consideration:
(a)	- Jesse Lionel Cobb, a witness for the prosecution, testified that the deceased bumped into him at the ’’triangle" or "island" at the intersection of Park Road, Mere Street and Victoria Road in Diss at about 11:12 P*M«, on 1 May 1943* As deceased and the witness met, deceased said: "Somebody just hit me in the neck"* Deceased theh fell to the ground and spoke no more (R«7)* It may be inferred from the evidence that deceased had been stabbed while on the Mere Street side of the "island" and had immediately staggered aoross the "island" to the opposite curb on Park Road where he uttered the above statement and then collapsed (R*8,12,14)* Clearly such statement was part of the res gestae and admissible as such. (M.C.Mi, par.ll5b, p.18; CM 193895 (l930), Dig.Ops.JAG*,1912-1940, par*395(24), p.2l6j CM ETO 438, Smith).
(b)	- The record does not recite that the defense waived its cross-examination of prosecution’s witness. Dr. David Hamilton Fulton* However, it does state: "There being no more questions, the witness was excused" (R*17)• The record of trial was examined by Defense Counsel and initialed by him before authentication (R.39) • Such state of the record makes it obvious that the defense waived its cross-examiuuoion of Dr. Fulton, although there is no formal declaration of such waiver.
(59)
(c)	- Prosecution’s witness, Sgt. Stephen J. Graham, I.D., P.M.G., U.S. Forces, testified that the envelopes, photograph and papers, constituting in the aggregate "Exhibit 1, Prosecution" were shown accused at the time accused made hi3 last statement (Exhibit 2, Prosecution), Accused admitted the articles constituting "Exhibit 1, Prosecution" were his property and that he had lost them in Diss.
This was an admission against interest and admissible as such, independent of any proof of its voluntary nature, (M.C.M,, par,114b, p.U6j CM ETO 292; Mickles), In view of Sgt. Graham’s testimony that "Exhibit 1, Prosecution" was shown to accused and he made this admission at the time of his last statement (Exhibit 2, Prosecution) it might be considered as part of the confession and admissible as such (see sub-par, (d) infra),
(d)	- "ExSabit 2, Prosecution" is the signed confession of accused (R,19). Although it was written by Detective Inspector Gamer, accused, after having it read to him, signed it. The evidence is clear and positive that it was given by aooused voluntarily and that
he was free from the influence of fear or promises of leniency at this time. The corpus delicti had been fully established at the time the confession was received by the Court, by the testimony of Cobb (R.7,
8,9), McMullan, (R.9,10,11), Leybum (R, 11,12,13,14) and Fulton (R.15,16,17),	The confession was properly admitted in evidence
(M.C.M., par.114a, p.114; 16 C.J., sec.1508, p.72; CM ETO 438, Smith).
(e)	- Prosecution’s witness, Funderburk, while on the stand stated he did not know the time on the evening of 1 May 1943 when he left accused after they had departed from the second public house they visited (R.25). The Trial Judge Advocate showed the witness what was apparently a prior written statement made by him, but did not offer such statement to the Court nor to Defense Counsel. There was no demand for its inspection (R.25,26), The witness admitted the statement refreshed his recollection and then testified he left accused about 10:30 P.M. Although the better practice is to offer such statement for inspection by the Court and opposing counsel before examining the witness upon it, the use of the statement in this instance was entirely proper in the absence of demand for inspection. (CM ETO 438, Smith),
(f)	- Prosecution’s witnesses, Johnson and Sanders, testified (the latter by stipulation) that at about 12:15 A.M., 2 May 1943, while returning to camp they were approached by a colored American soldier (whom the defense stipulated was accused) who volunteered his name, serial number and outfit and who informed them he had just cut someone’s throat and that he had lost something (R.30,31)» This statement is an admission against interest and in view of the identification of accused and his confession (Exhibit 2. Prosecution) is manifestly admissible in evidence. (See sub-par. (p) and (d), supra),
50 G
- n -
241104
(g)	- Defense witnesses Rogers (R.33,34), Nash (R.35),
Cook (R.36,37) and Whatling (R.37), testified that the deceased had solicited them, respectively, for the commission of acts of indecency and in some instances had actually laid his hands ppon their persons in urging such perverted relations. The times and dates of the solicitations or personal contacts were stated by the witnesses to be as follows: Rogers: 12 April 1943; Nash: several occasions but dates not stated; Cook: six solicitations within year prior to 19 May 1943, last being in January 1943; Whatling: several times within period of three years prior to trial. This evidence is entirely favorable to accused and was produced in his defense without objection from the Prosecution.	Whatling* s testimony was actually stipulated. Under
these circumstances if the admission of such evidence constituted error, it was self-invited by accused»s counsel and rather than being prejudicial to accused it is favorable to him (24 C.J.S., sec.1843, p.695; CM ETO 438, Smith).
The Board of Review however, cannot ignore the implication created by its present treatment of the testimony of these witnesses.
The circumstances connected with its use in this case render moot the question of its admissibility. Such question is specifically reserved by the Board of Review for future consideration and determination in a case where it is directly raised.
(h)	- Exhibit 5, Prosecution, "sketch of the various localities the witnesses have spoken of", was received in evidence without proof of Its authorship or any proof of its authenticity (R.38). Upon its face it does not indicate by whom or when it was prepared. The defense made no objection to its admission nor did it agree thereto. The proper basis for the admission of the exhibit was therefore not laid, and the Court would have been justified in rejecting it. However, no prejudice or harm resulted to accused through its admission or use.
It is a harmless error within the purview of AW 37.
8.	The Law Member of the Court, (Major Howard E. Webster) designated by the order appointing the Court did not participate in the trial, having been" previously transferred from EBS, SOS, ETOQSA. The order appointing the Court did not require the presence of the Law Member. Under such circumstances the President of the Court properly exercised the function of the Law Member. (M.C.M., par.38c, p.28;
M.C.M., par.51c, p.39)* However, when a law member is transferred from the command, he should be replaced as soon as possible.
9.	At the conclusion of the Prosecution's evidence in chief Defense Counsel moved the Court for a finding of not guilty on the ground and for the reason that the evidence failed to prove that accused acted ,.ith malice aforethought when he cut deceased's throat (R.32,33). The charge of murder included the lesser offense of voluntary manslaughter (M.C.M., par.l/f8, p.162). Therefore, before
- 12
(61)
>
the finding of not guilty is permissible the Prosecution’s evidence must fail not only to establish prima facie the crime of murder, but also must fail in proof of any lesser included offense. (M.C.M., par.71d, p.56). The question as to whether an accused acted with malice aforethought in committing a homicide is usually a question of fact (30 C.J., sec.574, p.326) to be determined by the court.
There was substantial evidence before the Court at the time of this motion proving that accused was guilty of the crime of voluntary manslaughter* The Court was fully warranted in denying the motion and in reserving consideration of the question raised by the motion until making its ultimate findings (CM ETO 393* Caton and Pikes)•
10.	The charge originally preferred against accused and sworn to on 5 May '1943 by the accuser. It. Harder, was manslaughter under the 93rd Article of War. After investigation and when it was referred to the Staff Judge Advocate he recommended trial under the 92nd Article of War on the charge of murder. This recommendation was concurred in by It. Col. Joel W. Clayton, Chief of Staff, EBS, SOS, ETO, on the 15th May 1943* The charge was accordingly amended but not reverified. Had the accused been convicted of murder a most serious question would have been presented because of the obviously irregular practice above noted. Inasmuch as accused has been found guilty of manslaughter,
the original charge, no prejudice thereby resulted to him.
11,	The evidence is uncontradicted that deceased’s death was due to a hemorrhage produced by the severance of his left internal jugular vein; that such division of the jugular vein was resultant upon the infliction of a deeply cut wound in deceased’s throat, and that it was accused who inflicted the wound with his pocket knife.
There can be no question as to the identity of deceased’s slayer. Independent of accused’s confession and unsworn statement the prosecution proved that it was accused who committed the crime. The discovery at the locus of the homicide of accused’s photograph contained in an envelope bearing his "return address"; accused’s statement to Johnson and Sanders that he had cut a man’s throat and "lost something" and Funderburk’s testimony placing accused in the immediate proximity of the "island" where deceased was fatally stabbed within a short time before the occurrence of the incident is substantial, uncontradicted evidence that it was accused who cut deceased’s throat, and thereby caused his death.
Evidence of the incidents of the homicide is furnished only by accused’s confession and unsworn statement supplemented by the opinions and inferences drawn by Dr. Fulton from the nature of the wound suffered by deceased. The Prosecution made no attempt to controvert accused’s narrative of events. Oppositely, the record shows that Lho Prosecution made no objection to the admission of Defense’s evidence - in the instance of one witness the Trial Judge Advocate stipulated his testimony - having for its purposes the identification of deceased as a moral pervert and the corroboration of
- T3
241104
(62)
^lit', i iHU
accused* s assertion that deceased provoked him to his violent act by pulling open the fly of his trousers and grabbing his private parts. Therefore, accused* s guilt is determinable upon uncontradicted evidence furnished almost entirely by himself.
Accepting the facts as stated by accused and as the Court undoubtedly found, a situation is presented wherein deceased, a stranger to accused, approached him on a public street in the darkness of near mid-night, and assumed the role of a solicitor for prostitution - a panderer. Upon securing accused*s assent to accompany him "to have some fun with a girl", the deceased as the two men walked up the street suddenly pulled open the flys of accused's trousers and "grabbed" accused's private parts. Immediately, accused with his right hand, pulled his open knife from his pocket and with it struck deceased in the neck. He >had been eating fish and had just completed cleaning his teeth with the knife. He evidently had placed it in his pocket with the blade open. Deceased, upon being struck, let go of accused's privates and accused walked away leaving deceased still standing. In his confession, accused insists:
"I struck him to protect myself I did not mean to kill him, *** If the civilian had not spoken to me I should not have spoken to him, and if he had not caught hold of my penis and testicles I should not have done anything to him", (Exhibit 2,
Prosecution),
Accused's unsworn statement substantially repeats his confession (R,3S)
The Court, in its deliberation, was confronted with the issue as to whether the Prosecution had sustained its burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt all of the facts necessary to sustain the charge of murder. One of the principal elements was that accused acted with malice aforethought, Whether this proof had been made was essentially a question of fact primarily within the exclusive province of the Court,
"The characteristic element of voluntary manslaughter is that it is committed upon a sudden heat of passion, aroused by due provocation, and without malice. The passion thus aroused must be so violent as to dethrone the reason of the accused, for the time being; and prevent thought and reflection, and formation of a deliberate purpose. The theory of the law is that malice and passion of this degree cannot coexist in the mind at the same time ***« (1 Wharton's Criminal Law, 12th Ed,, sec,426, pp,645,646,647),
14 -
(63)
In reaching a conclusion upon this question the Court of necessity was compelled to answer the directly related subsidiary questions* (a) whether or not the personal violence visited upon accused*s person by deceased at the time and place of the homicide was of such character or was inflicted tinder such circumstances as to be reasonably calculated to arouse anger and rage in the heart and mind of accused, and (b) whether or not accused stabbed deceased under the compelling influence of such anger and rage and not with malice aforethought. Deceased’s act in "grabbing” accused’s private parts without warning, under the circumstances related by accused, was an act of extreme provocation. This kind of a battery executed by one male upon another male is shocking, repulsive and abhorent.
It bespeaks abnormality and degeneracy. It arouses indignation, wrath and anger.
There is certainly substantial evidence from which the Court might infer that when accused struck the fatal blow he was acting under such violent anger and wrath as to displace his powers of judgment and deliberation and that his mental and emotional condition was resultant upon provocation for which deceased was entirely responsible.
The Board of Review is of the opinion that there is not only competent evidence in the record to support the findings of the Court, but also that by its findings the Court has done complete justice.
The fact that deceased might have been a moral degenerate or that even he was a menace to the social wellbeing of his community is no legal justification for his death under the circumstances revealed by the record, "A murder is not excusable merely because the person murdered is a bad man” (Underhill’s Criminal Evidence, 4-th Ed,, sec,562, p.llll).
0
12,	Accused is of the age of 34- years. His approved sentence includes confinement for five years for an act recognised an an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by 35 Stat. 114.3, 18 U.S.C,, seo.454, and which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Therefore, confinement in the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, is proper. (AW 42} War Department Directive 2-26-41, AG 253 (2-6-41) E). Accused’s return to the United States and execution of sentence to dishonorable discharge is authorized. (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 Sept 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 Dec 1942).
13* The Court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the accused and the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial.
506
241104
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
k7
Judge Advocate
1st Ind,
(65)
2 ^ JUN 1943
ID, Branch Office TJAG., with ETCUSA.	TO:	Commanding
General, Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA.
1.	In the case of Pvt. JAMES (NMI) BRISQN (34302547), Company A, 827th Engineer Aviation Battalion, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50£, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order .are forwarded to this
office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 506. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:	(ETO	506).
Brigadier General, U. S. Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
1 Ind:
Holding of Board of Review.

#(67)
