#(345)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General
with the European Theater of Operation^ APO 871	'
Board of Review.
ETO 422t
UNITED STATES
v.
Private First Class WILLARD GREEN (NMI), (34072287), Company "A",
383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate).
10 MAY 1945
i
) WESTERN BASE SECTION,
) SERVICES OF SUPPLY,
) EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS..
) :
) Trial by G.C.M., convened at,
) Burton-on-Trent, England, 's''..
)	5 March 1943* Sentence:.
) Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture
) of all pay and allowances due or
) to become due, and confinement at
)' hard labor for life. Penitentiary.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier above named has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
, CHARGE I:	Violation of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification: In that Willard Green (NMI),
Private First Class, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate) did, at Egginton Camp, Derbyshire,
England, on hr about 5 February, 1943, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation kill one Wilfred Ri O’Connell, Private First Clas3, Company C,
131st Quartermaster Reg. (Truck), a human being by shooting him with a rifle.
CHARGE II: Violation of the 93rd Article of War. Specification: In that Willard Green (NMI),
Private First Class, 383rd Engineer Battalion (Separate) did, at Egginton Camp, Derbyshire,
England, on or about 5 February, 1943, with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon Philip H. Brown, Company C, 131st Quartermaster Reg. (Truck), by shooting him in the left hand, with a dangerous weapq$ 3°77^ rifle.
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charges and -Specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for the rest of his natural life.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement, and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50^.
' 3. On 5 Feb 1943 the accused was a member of Co. A, 383rd Engineer Battalion (R.116,128) which was stationed at Camp Egginton, England (R.116), Also stationed at the same camp was Co. C, 131st Q.ll. Regiment (R.38,64,Hi).	The deceased, Pfc. Wilfred R. O'Connell
(31157042), was on said date a member of the latter organization • (Pros. Ex. B), (R.7,26,64,89).
Camp Egginton was located within the town of Hilton (R.18,19, 64,81,90,111). The principal ingress and egress of the Camp is at Post No. 2. There is no gate, but two posts stand upright at the entrance (R.31,106,12l). The camp is at least partially surrounded by a barbed wire fence (R.20). A public bus line operates between the town of Hilton and Derby,	England.	The Hilton terminus	of the
bus line is located on a public street,	adjacent	to the camp. Upon
departing from a bus (arrived at Hilton) a passenger gains entrance to the camp by walking a distance on the public street in the direction of the camp and then at right	angles turning the	comer of a	brick
building. From the building	corner to	the camp	entrance is	between
7 and 9 yards (R.8,90,101).•
At 10 P.M., on 5 February 1943, accused was posted on guard at Post 2 (the entrance to the camp) (R.132,144).	He was armed with
a Garand rifle, H-l, bearing number 735729 (R.23,87,118,123,149).-The sentry relieved by him delivered to him a clip of 8 cartridges, which he inserted in his rifle (R.125,148). The rifle is automatic. When the clip is inserted in it and pressure is released the first cartridge slips into the chamber. The safety is then put on (R.I48).
During the evening 5 February 1943, the deceased was at the "Rose and Crown", a public house, in Derby (R.97) and two hours prior, to reaching the camp, he was "pretty well drunk" (R.97,109). When he left he was in a highly intoxicated condition (R.53,65,109), but gained passage on the bus arriving at Hilton at 11 P.M., (R.7,65,109). He slept during the trip from Derby to Hilton, and was not boisterous or disorderly (R.110,113). When the bus arrived at Hilton, deceased was in a helpless condition and required assistance to leave the bus (R.65,113). Corporal James E..Sheets, Corporal Vincent Prat3, Corporal Ernest P. Montella, Pfc. Steven M. Hersey, Pvt, Philip. H. Brown and Pvt, Mack4EU Rmnsqn, all of Co. C, 131st Q.M. Regiment,
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
422
(347)
CONFIDENTIAL
were also on pass on the evening of 5 February 1943 (R.6,42,53,66,82, 90,109). They were fellow passengers of deceased on the bus (R«6,19,39*109). Brown and Hersey, recognizing deceased's intoxicated condition, after he left the bus, undertook to escort him to his barracks within the camp (R.7,38,39,109,113).	Brown walked on the
right of deceased and placed his left arm around him to support him. Brown's left hand rested at about deceased's left shoulder blade (R.14,39,52,56,115). Hersey was oh deceased's left side with his right arm about deceased's back (R.69). Deceased's condition was such that he required assistance in walking (R.65,103,113).	The trio
proceeded along the public street from the bus (R.20,66,101).	Deceased
remained between Brown and Hersey and they were partly dragging him (R.39,69,103). He became sick and when by a certain fence on the street he stopped and vomited (R.20,21,38,53,66,90,101).	Upon reaching
the corner, the trio turned in the direction of the camp entrance and stopped about 7 or 8 ft from the end of the building (R.28,39,43,56,102) and about 20 or 30 ft from the camp entrance (R.8,70,90,101). Deceased was mumbling (R.40,44,45,51,69,75,91) but was not noisy or boisterous (R. 54,84,97,106).	He was not able to stand alone and was supported
by Brown and Hersey (R.39,76).
At the time deceased, Brown and Hersey arrived at the comer of the building, there was a crowd of .approximately 20 or 30 soldiers about the camp entrance, 'who had also traveled on the bus from Derby to Hilton and who were seeking to enter the camp. They had been halted by accused who demanded they exhibit their passes (R.7,9,21,22,39,68,81,85,91,101,111).	Many of the soldiers were using
flash-lights (R.27,48,54,78,85,89,114,136) Inasmuch as it was dark.
A certain amount of confusion existed, but there was no disorder (R.9,43,86,96,110).	!
Some of the soldiers indicated their impatience and displeasure over being delayed by directing to accused remarks of the.following nature: "To hell with that noise", "damn those orders" (R.131). Some of the men passed through the entrance without showing their passes to accused (R.68,69,92,131).	This was the first occasion upon which
soldiers had been compelled to show their passes on either leaving or entering the. camp (R.31,36,42,66,82,96,98),
4* The events occurring after arrival of deceased, Brown and Hersey at the comer of the building are described by the Prosecution's witnesses as follows:
Comoral Earnest P. Montella. Co. C. 131st Q.M. Reg:
Deceased, Hersey and Brown were standing 6 or 7 yards from -the group of soldiers at the entrance (R.7.33). They were behind the witness (R.7) who, with the guard (accused) was facing the camp. The crowd of soldiers was, for the most part, s tending between accused and the camp entrance, and he (accused) had his back to the men coming in from the street. He held his rifle at port arms. Witness heard
CONFIDENTIAL
237327
CONFIDENTIAL
(343)
% -conversation between deceased, Brown and Hersey (R.10J nor did he hear deceased say anything to accused (R.22). Accused turned around and faced the trio. Witness was within a few feet of accused, but nearer to deceased (R.ll). Accused stepped towards deceased and told him to nshut up" or he would shoot him, and continued to walk towards deceased (R.l6,17,23)• Witness (simultaneously with accused) faced about and walked towards accused and said; "I'll take charge of that man". In response to witness, accused said; "Better get him out of here" (R.17,25). When accused turned around he lowered his rifle from port-arms to a horizontal position about level with his hips (R.12,16). After first halting, the three soldiers did not move (R.29). Accused did not call "halt" (R.16,18). The rifle was pointed in the direction of deceased, Brown and Hersey (R.16,24). There was no one between accused and deceased, Brown and Hersey (R.32). At this instant deceased said; "I'd sooner be dead to the way I feel now". (R.13,17,25)* Witness heard no response from accused, who immediately shot in direction of deceased. The end of the barrel of accused's rifle was about 2 or 3 yards from deceased when accused fired (R.26).
There were two shots (R.13,17,25) discharged rapidly (R.25). Hersey jumped back and deceased fell to the ground towards left. Witness heard accused's weapon explode and no one else in the vicinity had a weapon (R,34)« Witness did not notice Brown's actions. Brown was on deceased's right (R.14,23). Witness stood next to accused and about 3 yards from deceased (R.27). Witness headed for orderly room (R.15,24)• Brown came in a few minutes later with his hand bleeding (R.15,27). Witness thereafter saw deceased stretched out on floor of dispensary (R.15). Witness identified accused as the guard at the camp entrance the night of 5 February 1943 (R.35)•
There was no rain (R.15) and it was not a cloudy night (R.25).
Private Philip H. Brown. Co. C. 131st Q.M. Reg; Witness, deceased and Hersey stopped at the corner of the building about 20 ft from the crowd at the camp entrance and about 8 ft out from the building (R.39,43,56). Witness was on deceased's right (R.39,52).
The crowd of soldiers were around the guard, who was facing towards . the camp (R.39). Deceased started to mumble something. "It was all jumbled up", but such mumbling was not directed at the guard but it was loud enough for the guard to hear (R.40,44). The sentry turned around and walked over towards the three men. He had his rifle pointed- at them and told them to shut up or he would shoot. He came within five feet of deceased, who said; "Well, go ahead and shoot.
I can't feel any worse" (R.40,47,48). The guard then shot. There was no one else in the vicinity in the possession of a weapon. Two shots were, fired (R.41,54,55,58) in rapid succession. Witness next remembers arriving at the orderly room. From the time the guard turned around to,the time he fired witness states was four or five minutes. Deceased was making no disturbance. No one ordered "halt" (R.43). After stopping at the point 8 ft from the corner of the building neither witness, deceased nor Hersey advanced (R.44,57). Deceased did not call the guard any names (R.44) and there was no ^ rjr> '
23 7327
_ 4 « COmiutNiTAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(349)
argument between him and guard, but deceased was mumbling. Witness did not hear Corporal Montella speak to guard (R.45) but did remember that Montella was present (R.47). The guard was armed with an automatic rifle, but witness was not sure guard had a flash-light (R.48), Deceased's mumbling must have annoyed accused to some extent (R.51)«
It was not raining (R.52). When shots were fired, witness was on deceased's right side and had his left arm around him. Deceased’s right arm was around witness’s neck and over his shoulder (R.52,56). . Witness was wounded in the left hand (R.56). There is a bullet hole in the hand between thumb and first finger. The hand was treated that night at the Derby infirmary (R.56). One bullet went through deceased and witness's left hand and witness does not know where,other bullet went. Witness saw deceased at the "medics" when he was brought in and laid on floor and witness saw the wound in him (R.59). Before the two shots were fired there was no hole in witness's left hand but after shots were fired there was a hole in it (R.60),
Ffc. Steven M. Hersev. Co. C. 131st Q..M. Reg:' When witness, deceased and Brown came around the comer of the building three or four steps, a guard was facing away from the camp and facing them (R.65,67,
73)•	The guard was about the middle of the street and was armed with
a rifle which was pointed at the trio. The guard was accused (identifying him in court) (R.68,70). He held the gun at his side parallel with the ground (R.65,67,73)• Montella said he would take charge of the three soldiers, and the guard said something to him. Deceased was mumbling to Brown (R.74). Brown told accused he had a drunk man and asked permission to take him through the gate (R.65,73)»
The guard told deceased to shut up or he would shoot (R.68,70).
Montella was standing on the left of the guard facing the trio.
Witness was on deceased's left side. Deceased was not mumbling to the guard. There was no argument (R.69,74,75) • The three soldiers had stopped about 6 ft from the guard. Witness did not hear guard order "halt" (R.74). Deceased could not step forward (R.79).
Deceased then said:. "I would rather be dead than the way I feel"
(R.65,70). The guard replied: "Do you think I am kidding?" and then shot him (R.65,70,76). Two shots were fired. It was fast fire (R.70) from the guard's rifle (R.76). Deceased was lying on the ground making funny noises when he breathed. The guard fired the two shots.
The guard's rifle was the only one at the gate and there was no one else armed with a rifle (R.71,72). There was another guard at the gate (R.71), but he didn't have a rifle as far as witness could see (R.72). After deceased was on the ground one of the soldiers got permission from the guard to carry him up to the medics, and witness helped the other soldier to carry deceased to the infirmary (R.72).
Corporal Vincent Prats. Go. C. 131st Q.M. Reg:	When	witness
arrived at camp entrance he saw two fellows holding a third one up. Witness went to the gate. There was a gang of fellows standing around the guard and the guard was checking passes. Witness held out his pass to the guard when the guard looking towards camp said:
"Who is popping off?" and brought his gun from port-arms and threw a cartridge into the chamber. The guard then went to checking passes4;l2,<2
237327
CONFiDENMI
again* Witness proceeded through gate about 20 ft when he heard some shots - 2 or 3 in rapid succession. YJitness went to orderly room to turn in pass and Pvt. Brown came in (R.82,83,86). There was no noise (R.85) and no argument at the camp entrance (R.86).
Accused was armed with a Garand rifle (R.87). It was a dark night, but not raining. The sentry was a colored soldier (R.89).
t
Pvt. Mack B. Brunson. Co. C. 131st Q.M. Reg: Witness identified accused in court as the guard at the camp entrance on the night deceased was shot (R.90,101). There was a crowd of soldiers about the gate. Some were showing their passes and some were just walking through. The guard called one fellow, Reynolds, back and he came back and showed his pass, but the guard never looked at it. He "throwed" up his head and said "Go on" (R.9l). The guard was facing the camp. Witness heard guard's gun click. Witness was standing on left of guard - 2 or 3 ft from him. The guard turned around and faced deceased, Brown and Hersey (R.91,103>10A). Deceased was mumbling (R.105). Llontella stepped up and said "I'll take charge of these three men and take them in". The guard did not reply to Montella (R.91,96). Deceased murmured something and the guard said: "Shut up or I'll shoot". Deceased said: "Go ahead and shoot, I'd rather be dead than the way I am now." The guard said.: "You think I am kidding" and then he fired - fired two shots (R.91,95,96). A fellow from the 156th Infantry rushed over and said to the sentry: "Please let us take him through the gate. The man is dying". The guard had his gun pointed towards deceased, replying: "You ain't taking him no place". Then a Corporal or a Sergeant said: "Go on, let him take him through". Then this fellow (referring to the soldier, from the 156th Infantry) and witness picked him up and carried him through the gate. He was taken to the orderly room and Pfc. Ross helped the rest of the way to the medics (R.90,91,106).
Upon further examination witness was not certain whether Uontella said: "I'll take charge of these three men and take them in" prior or subsequent to the guard saying: "Shut up or I'll shoot" (R.92). At this time the guard was mad. He was angry (R.92). Witness never heard anything said that was insulting about accused, nor did he hear any one call "halt". He heard two shots and did not see any one else with a rifle in that vicinity. Witness was standing 2 or 3 ft from guard on his left when he fired and saw fire from muzzle of rifle (R.93,94,10A). The rifle looked .like a Garand automatic (R.9A). It was a Garand because a Springfield couldn't fire two shots.as fast as these were fired.
There was a lot of talking going on that night about the gate, but there were no arguments and no trouble (R.96). There was nothing occurring that would warrant anyone getting mad. Brown was not making any racket. As far as witness knew deceased, Brown and Hersey were quiet. The guard appeared to be mad at somebody before he came on guard. Nothing occurred in witness's presence to make .
237327
- 6 -
fiOiiFlijFNTIAL
CUriHQENTIAL
(351)
guard mad (R.98) . It was the way accused told deceased "to shut up or I'll shoot you" that made witness think he was mad. (R.lOO).
Neither deceased, Brown nor Hersey created any disturbancej they were not any louder than the rest of the men (R.105). Brown, who was holding up deceased, had a bullet hole through his left hand (R.106,107)• It had baen raining that night but it was not raining when shooting occurred (R.107).
T/5 James E. Sheets. Co. C. 13lBt Q.M. Reg; Witness walked with deceased, Brown and Hersey from bus arriving at Hilton to camp . entrance, and he left them as they rounded the corner (R.110,115).
There was a crowd of soldiers around the gate. Witness in the court room identified accused as being the guard at the gate on night •
5 February 194-3 (R.110). The soldiers were all talking and mumbling (R.lll). Witness was with deceased in Derby, but there had been no fights or trouble. When deceased arrived at gate he did not conduct himself in an insulting manner towards the guard (R.112), nor could deceased's voice be heard over the noise of the crowd (R.114)•
Witness left deceased, Brown and Hersey at the gate and went on through (R.113), Witness was 10 or 15 yards within gate when he heard shooting (R.114). There were at least two shots fired (R.115).
Sergeant William Hill. Co. A. 383rd Eng. Bnr Accused was on guard at Post 2, Camp Egginton on night 5 February. 1943 (R.116).
Witness was at guard house on that night acting as Provost Sergeant (R.117). Pfo. Edward Dean was acting as Corporal of the Guard* He came down to guard house and informed witness that accused had shot a soldier down at the gate. Witness went to gate and picked up empty cartridge and accused voluntarily gave him another from his pocket. Witness was ordered by O.D. to take accused off guard and put another guard on post. Witness took accused to dispensary and gave him a "shake-down".	Then accused was examined by doctor. Then witness
took accused to guard house. Witness took accused's rifle from him (R.117,122,123) and put it under lock and key (R.118). (Witness identified a rifle produced in court as the rifle delivered to him by accused on night of shooting. It was received in evidence as Prosecution's Ex."A"). It is a Garand M-l (R.117,118,119). The rifle had not been cleaned (R.120). Witness formerly had acted as Sergeant of th,e Guard (R.120). At that time there was a special order requiring all passes to be examined by guard at Post 2 at Camp Egginton, but such order was dropped (R.121).	v
Witness asked accused why he did it. Accused replied that he was only carrying out his duties, - Witness also asked accused if he did not know it was a soldier coming through the gate. Accused said:
"No, I didn't know whether it was a soldier or not, although he had on a soldiers' clothes", because, he said "spies dress as American soldiers sometimes". Accused also stated he aske.d "the fellow" to halt but he didn't do it (R.123), There was only one guard on the gate that night and that was accused. Some days passes are checked
422
237327-7,
CONFIDENTIAL
(352)
CONFIDENTIAL
on Post 2 and some days they are not checked (R.124). The sentry's gun is supposed to t>e loaded with live ammunition as soon as he goes on post. The guard is given one clip - 8 rounds - by the preceding sentry (R.125).	•	.	.
When investigation was held the witness was present.
Accused stated that O.D. told accused to check passes, O.D, did not deny the statement although it was made in his presence (R.126,127) at the investigation,
)
Pfc.~ Edward N. Dean. Co. A. 383rd Eng. Bn* Witness was acting Corporal of the Guard on night of 5 February 19A3,	About
10*30 P.M., witness approached accused (who was on guard at the gate) who informed witness that O.D, had told him to check all passes	^
coming in (R.128,134)*	There was a pretty good crowd of soldiers
coming in and witness and accused stopped them and were checking their passes (R,128). The soldiers, who had been drinking, were making a lot of noise and swearing. They "ganged” around witness while he was checking passes (R.128,13l). Suddenly witness heard two shots and turned around and saw a soldier lying on the ground.	Witness
left and notified Provost Sergeant Hill who was at the guard house, and then went to'officers quarters and notified Lieut, Moody, the ■
Provost Marshall,' The O.D. had not informed witness that passes were to be checked (R.128,129). While witness was with accused at.an earlier time the crowd of soldiers pressed around them, and at that time witness heard accused call "halt" several times, but at time of shooting witness was 15 or 20 ft from accused (R.130,133) and the wind was blowing.and rain was falling and witness did not hear accused say anything (R.130,136). Accused had a flash-light. Witness was not armed; had neither rifle nor pistol. Accused was behind witness at his post and inside the gate facing the camp (R.131). Accused seemed to be in his normal state of mind and was not unusually tense or excited nor was there anything unusual in his attitude (R.132)
Witness did not know of any other rifle in vicinity than the one held by accused. After the shooting, witness went over to where deceased was lying. Accused was standing at port-arms. Accused was sober (R.133)»	Witness was busy checking passes so he did.not see the
actual shooting, but he heard two shots in rapid succession (R.134)*
5, Captain Thomas Moffet, M.C., General Depot G-18, was presented as a witness for the prosecution. At about 11:15 P.M., on 5 February 1943, the witness was notified that a man had been shot at the gate, ahd he went immediately to the dispensary. . He found two men; one of them was dead and the other was shot in the hand. The dead man was the deceased. Witness examined deceased and found a penetrating wound in the right 6th interspace about 3 inches to the right of the sternum and the point of exit was in the lumbar area. The point of entrance of the bullet was clean, round and approximately a centimeter in width. The point of exit was a large lacerating wound. In the
422-
- 8
237327
Cj:iriOENTIAL
(353)
i^.FIDENTIAL
opinion of the vdtness the wound was caused by a bullet (R.6l,62).
The penetrating wound was the cause of deceased’s death and there was no other wound on his body (R.63).
Brown had received a penetrating wound which had entered the left paj.ni and the point of exit was the ulnar surface of the left wrist. The point of entrance was clean cut and round and the point of exit was large and lacerated in character. In the opinion of witness the wound in Brown's hand could have been caused by the same bullet which passed through deceased (R.63,64).
There was also introduced in evidence as Prosecution's Ex."B", without objection from the defense, the report of the autopsy of deceased dated 10 February 1943 signed by First Lieutenant Norman J. Sweet, M.C., and countersigned by Major Allan Palmer, M.C., (R.176). Pertinent excerpts from the report are as follows*
'	CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS
Gun shot wound, penetrating, calibre .30, point of entrances 5 centimeters to right of xiphoid process." ' PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS (PRESUMPTIVE)
Gun shot wound of thorax penetrating: right 6th interspace, right pleural cavity, right diaphragm, right lobe of liver, aorta, spleen, vertebral column, left kidney, left lumbar muscles; laceration right upper arm; massive heraoperitoneum".
•	GROSS EXAMINATION
U U X U V U W W V A/ V v v
The course of the missile follows. The site of entry is marked by a spherical, clean cut hole six millimeters in diameter surrounded by an area of hemorrhagic discoloration 3 millimeters in thickness. This orifice is located five centimeters to the right of the tip of the xiphoid process, and immediately overlies the sixth right interspace. The latter is likewise perforated.
The bullet then passed through the right pleural cavity at the level of the costo-phrenic sinus, penetrating the diaphragm, completely traversing the substance of the right lobe of the liver and fragmenting the aorta ’ just distal to the superior mesentaric artery. The line of passage of the bullet up to this point makes an angle of approximately thirty degrees with the horizontal.
A small fragment of the medial aspect of the spleen has been tom away. From this point the bullet was apparently deflected along the left lateral aspect of the vertebral column, leaving jagged spicules of bone, and nearly completely pulverizing the left kidney. The left lumbar muscles were finally penetrated and exit ’from the body was made through an orifice 3 centimeters in diameter just cephalad to the left posterior superior 400 spine."
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
v, i». i i J Lis 1 i/iU
6, The witnesses presented by the defense testified as follows:
Sergeant William Hill. Co. A. 3&3rd Eng. Bn., testified that after shooting occurred he had conversations with accused* At the gate witness said to accused: "Green, why did you do it?" and accused replied: "I am just carrying out my duty. Sergeant I know you're against me". Witness answered: "I'm not against you, Green, but you shouldn't act too hasty". Later, at the guard house accused slept in the same room with witness, and they engaged in conversation. ■Accused said: "I know you are against me". Witness told him he shouldn't have an itchy trigger finger like that, and then accused said: "I told the fellow to halt, and he wouldn't halt, and I told him to halt again, and he said, "Go on shoot you black mother-fucker" and then accused said: "That is when I pulled the trigger"* Witness replied: "Well, you know how the white boys are at the gate. They don't want us colored boys on guard no how. We have to take it and like it. There is nothing that can be done" (R.138). Hill further testified that accused was "one of the best guards we got"; that the
O.D. and Sergeant of the Guard never had any complaints to make about accused; that he always carried out his orders; and he had never known accused to fire a weapon while on duty (R.140); that he was a good soldier. Upon examination by a member of the court, the witness further testified that accused had stated that he said "halt" to soldiers coming through the gate; that since the incident accused had repeatedly declared: "I told the soldier to halt three times".
He just said it to the white soldiers but he didn't tell what group of soldiers, and he didn't tell which one of the soldiers called him the obscene name (R.142).
The accused, after having his rights explained to him, was sworn and testified on his own behalf as follows:	that	he	went	on
guard duty at Camp Egginton at .10 P.1.1., on 5 February 1943. The O.D. came by and asked if the last bus had come from Derby, and if accused had had any trouble. Upon being informed in the negative accused then asked the O.D: "Is it necessary to check the passes?" and he said: "Yes, check them all". The O.D..was Lieutenant Porter. Then Corporal Dean came to the post and accused informed him that the O.D. said to get the passes. A bunch of soldiers appeared and Dean stood behind accused, and stopped soldiers that accused could not catch. This soldier comes along, and accused told him three times to halt. The second time accused called "halt" the soldier said: "You, black mother-fucker". Accused "halted" him the third time. Accused "didn't see him like he stopped walking, so I just shot him". Accused was standing at his post at the gate. This man "come from the direction of the bus" (R.144) and accused first saw him when he first came around the building. Did not know deceased and had never seen him before (R.146,150), He was about six feet away from accused.
It was raining and the wind was blowing hard at the time. Accused had his gun at port-arms when he called "halt" the first time. He was then shining his flash-light in the soldiers face. The man "Kept on walking". Then accused "halted" him the second time and
Ls>m IUlH i ihi-
422
tuiHrlilENTlAL
(355)
the soldier must have heard because he called accused the vile name.
This did not make accused angry (R.146,147), but the soldier kept on approaching and accused called "halt" the third time. Accused turned the light off and then shot him (R.146,147). Accused did not see the soldier with any one (R.145), nor did he see a man on each side of him nor behind him. When accused challenged the soldier there was no one around (R.145,146). Accused brought his rifle to his hip, parallel with the ground and pointed it in the direction of the soldier. He was not trying *to aim at deceased but just pointed it towards him.
Accused did not see the soldier but after telling him for the third time to halt, .and hearing footsteps approaching he put his hand on the trigger and pulled it (R.147,158).	Accused thought he fired but one
shot but there were two rounds used. The Sergeant picked up one shell and the witness gave him the other shell. He did npt know when he pulled trigger how many shots he had fired. He put a clip of eight cartridges into rifle when he went on guard at 10 P.M. The safety was on, but he took it off after the third challenge (R.148). Accused did not know whether he had hit target or not, but he put flash-light on when two other fellows come around and picked up the soldier (R.149),
V	-
Cross-examination of accusedl
Deceased was about $ yards from accused when first challenged (R.151). Corporal Dean was standing back of accused about 15 or 20 yards during early part of the night, but did not know if he were there when he fired the shots. Dean was checking passes of men who got by accused (R.153>155), Accused called "halt" to all of those men, but some went by and Dean caught them. All of the men whose passes accused checked, stopped about eight feet away and accused could see their passes b7 use of the flash-light. (The trial judge advocate asked accused to read a piece of paper from a distance of eight feet and received no reply fl*om accused. Accused explained that he put his flash-light directly on the passes and that the flash-light was a "spot-light" (R.154).) When this soldier came around the corner of the house accused threw a flash-light on him and "halted him". He was not drunk and was walking like soldiers usually walk (R.156). It wasf sprinkling and the wind was blowing against accused - against accused’s back (R.156). The following colloquy occurred:
"Q. You called halt the first time. Do you think the fellow heard you.
A. He should hear me. I hollered loud enough for him to hear me.
Q. You think he heard you?
A. Yes.
Q. You do. Then will you tell us why, on direct examination, you said you didn’t think he heard you?
A. (No answer).
422
237327	-	u	-	CONFIDENTIAL
Q. When Captain LlacLeod asked you the question, you said you didn't think this fellow heard you the first time.
A. I said he didn't heard me the first time?
Q. When Captain MacLeod asked you the question, you said that you didn't think that he heard you the first time.
A. Well, I said that is why I don't think he heard me the first time.
Q. You don't think he heard you the first time.
You just told me you think he did hear you the first time.
A. He didn't hear me the first time.
Q. He didn't hear you the first time?
A. No.
Q. What makes you think that?
A. Well, if he heard me, he would have stopped.
Q. He would have stopped?
A. Yes. « (R.156-157).
Accused then testified deceased was approximately eight yards from accused when he challenged the second time (R.157). At that time deceased called him "a black mother-fucker". Accused challenged deceased for a third time; and put the flash-light out. Deceased kept advancing and when he was about 8 ft from accused the latter fired in direction of deceased (R.15S), although he was not certain he was going to hit him and did not want to kill him. Accused did not shoot back into camp because he might hit somebody and he didn't shoot into the sky because he did not think of it (R.159). Before accused fired the two shots there was only one man coming towards him. There was no one else near him. The fellow lay on the ground after the shots were fired. Then two fellows came from the direction of the bus (R.160). They came to the gate and accused turned his flash-light on them and halted them and asked for their passes. They saw deceased on the ground, and took him in. Accused challenged the two men when they were about six feet distant from him
"Q. Let me bring you back again to where the first man was coming up and came into the entry; the very first time you challenged that man, he was about as far away from you as those peanut cans are now. Is that right? When the 2 men came up after the shooting, you challenged them the first time when they were about this far away from you. (Indicating approximately 6 feet) Is that right?
A. That's right.
Q. Well, why was it that you let these 2 men get* so close to you?
A. What do you mean so close?
S.
ICENTIM.
- 12
(357)
,u£NTlAL
Q. Suppose they hadn't stopped when you halted them the first time, they would have been much closer the second time, wouldn't they?
A. I wouldn't let them get that close up I would have backed back myself.
Q. You would have backed back yourself? Why didn't you back up on the time previous when this other....
A. (Interposing) If I would back off him, I would back up against the post,
Q. What was the difference between the 2 men?
A, Because I was... That is the post there,
(Indicating) and I was standing right on that side. You couldn't walk around the post. There was barbed wire.
Q. Why couldn't you have walked around the other side where there was no barbed wire?
A. Why didn't I walk around the side where there wasn't the barbed wire? If I came on that side, I would have been outside the post.''.
(R.162-163).	•
Accused had been called "Mother fucker" lots of times and didn't mind and didn't care anything about it. It is a bad word but fellows have a habit of using that kind of words (R.163). He does not know Pvt. Brown and didn't pay any attention to the soldier with the bandaged wrist who was in the court-room (R.164-). Accused did not think it right to kill a man "unless you have to". "I was carrying out orders.
I couldn't see whether it was a soldier or a spy" (R.I64). So far as accused knew there was only one man who came around the corner. There could have been more than one but he did not look. Accused didn't know whether the man was drunk or sober because he never had "been amongst drunken soldiers". He did not call "halt" a fourth time, although deceased did not hear him the first time, because "you're not supposed to halt no fourth time. You challenge three times. If they don't halt the third time, I fire". The O.D. did not tell him that. Accused did not see any other flash-lights while he was playing his flash-light on the one soldier (R.165). When he pointed rifle at deceased he wasn't aiming to hit or kill him. He didn't aim at the person. He pointed the rifle in the direction he heard footsteps to scare the persop approaching (R.166). There was no one around when the man approached. All of the soldiers had passed and gone back to camp. There was one man walking alone. Witness did not turn the flash-light on after he had fired the shots because he didn't figure he had hit the man (R.167) and didn't call the Corporal of the Guard (R.169). Accused did not know why he. did not turn on his flash-light or did not call the Corporal of the Guard. He didn't know whether he was afraid the lone man was going to come up to him and strike him (R.170).
PVPPrMTIAl
422
CONFIDENTIAL
Redirect examination of accused -
Accused has never shot anyone before; has never been in jail; has not been arrested and has not been convicted of a crime. He is u~t prejudiced against white people. If he hadn't fired his gun or fired it up in the air he would prdbably have been taken off his post and put in the stockade. After calling halt three times a sentry must fire his gun. Accused did not fire because the man called him a bad name (R.173). This was the first occasion at Hilton Barracks that accused ever used a rifle (R.174).	-
7.	The defense indicated a desire to stipulate with regard to the information as to the army intelligence test as shown on form 20 and declared that the.army score shows 47 (R.175). The trial-judge advocate stated .to the court that the investigating officer had examined form 20 and reported that according to the army qualifications test accused's score is 4-7. Prosecution was willing to stipulate to that fact (R.176). Defense counsel suggested that the Court could take judicial notice of the fact that a person scoring under 50 was a moron. After a member of the Court (Capt. Wopd) stated that there is no regulation as to feeble mindedness, the Law Member ruled that the matter would not be further considered. Thereupon the defense)’counsel withdrew his offer to stipulate, stating* "The court has had the opportunity to view the witness" (R.176). There was no suggestion or demand that accused be examined as to his sanity*
8,	The charge Sheet does not show that a copy of same was served,
on accused. AW 70 in pertinent part provides*	>■
*!*+* The trial judge advocate will cause to be served uponv&ccused a copy of the charges upon which trial is to be had, and a failure so to serve such charges will be ground for a continuance unless the trial be had on charges furnished the accused as hereinbefore provided.
The defense made no motion for a continuance, but proceeded to trial without indicating that the charges had not been served on accused. ,	.
The record of trial was examined and initialed by defense counsel pursuant to par. 45b, M.C.M. The failure to serve copy of the charges did not impinge upon the jurisdiction of the Court, as it is not .
"an essential proceeding". (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents (Reprint) p.157). Inasmuch as accused did not ask for a continuance; did not even suggest that copy of the charges had not been served upon him, and proceeded to trial without objection, it will be presumed that such service was properly made although evidence of service is not shown by the record. It does not appear that this irregularity in any respect injuriously affected any rights of accused (AT/ 37).
14
CONFIDENTIAL
422
confidential
(359)
9.	Sergeant William Hill, 383rd Eng. Bn., appeared as a witness for the prosecution (R.116). Thereafter he was called as a defense witness (R.137). Defense counsel proceeded to interrogate him as to statements made by accused after the homicide (a) at the entrance to the camp and (b) in the witness’s room after accused had been placed in arrest. In substance, accused asserted to Hill (Hill so testified) that he had shot deceased in the performance of his duty; that he told deceased to halt "and he wouldn’t halt and I told him to halt again and he said ’Go on shoot you black mother-fucker' and that is when I pulled the trigger" (R.13S). This evidence, produced by the defense, contained an admission by accused against interest that he shot deceased. In this respect it was clearly admissible, without showing its voluntary character (M.C.M., par.llAb, p.116). Accused’s statements insofar as they are exculpatory were not part of the res gestae (M.C.M., par.115, p.118); were self-serving declarations and were inadmissible in evidence, (l Wharton's Criminal Evidence, par.505, p.788). However, since Hill's testimony was invited by defense counsel, any unfavorable reaction it had upon accused does not constitute prejudicial error.
(24 C.J.S., sec.1843, p.695).
10.	Accused is positively identified as the soldier who was on sentry duty at Post 2 of Camp Egginton at the time deceased, Brown and Hersey approached the entrance of the Camp on the night of 5 February 19A3. The evidence is clear and indisputable that it was accused who shot and killed deceased at the time and place alleged in the Specification of Charge I . Therefore, the homicide and accused's connection therewith are irrefragably established.
11.	By Charge I and its Specification accused is charged with the murder of deceased. The record of trial presents a fundamental question:
"Is the evidence legally sufficient to sustain the finding that accused was guilty of murder or does it prove that accused was only guilty of manslaughter, a lesser included offense?"
The problem should be considered in three aspects: (a) did the accused at the time he shot deceased act under such provocation, anger or heat of passion as to dethrone his powers of reasonsing, judgment and deliberation and thereby negative the necessary element of murder, to-wit, malice aforethought? (b) did the asservation by accused that he did not intend .to kill accused when he discharged his rifle at him reduce the grade of his offense from murder to manslaughter? (c) is there evidence of a well grounded belief of accused when he fired of imminent danger as would reduce the homicide to manslaughter? Murder is defined thus:
237327 -i5-
CGNFIDENTIAk
422
(360)
CONFIDENTIAL
"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. 'Unlawful' means without legal justification or excuse ***. Among the lesser offenses which may be included in a particular charge of murder are manslaughter, certain forms of assault and an attempt to commit milder.***"
(M.C.M., sec.148, p.162),
"Murder a;s defined at common law, and by statutes simply declaratory thereof, consists in the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought." (29 C.J., sec.59, p.1083).
"Murder, at common law, is the unlawful killing,' by a person of sound memory and discretion, of any reasonable creature in being and under the peace of the State, with malice aforethought, either express or implied." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents (2nd Ed) sec.1041, p.672).
The important element of murder, to wit, "malice aforethought" has been analysed by authorities as follows:
"The term malice. as ordinarily employed in criminal law, is a strictly legal term, meaning not personal spite or hostility but simply the wrongful intent essential to the commission of crime. When used, however, in connection with the word 'aforethought' or 'prepense', in defining the particular crime of murder, it signifies the same evil intent, as the result of a determined purpose, premeditation, deliberation, or brooding, and therefore as indicating, in the view of the law, a malignant or depraved nature, or, as the early writer, Foster, has expressed it, 'a heart regardless of social duty, and fatally bent upon mischief. The deliberate purpose need not have been long entertained; it is sufficient if it exist at the moment of the act. Malice aforethought is either 'express' or 'implied'; express, where the intent, - as manifested by previous enmity, threats, the absence of any or of sufficient provocation, etc.- is to take the life of the particular person killed, or, since a specific purpose to kill -is not essential
537827
- 16 - CONFIDENTIAL
422
GuwtluENTlAL
(361)
to constitute murder, to inflict upon him some excessive bodily injury which may naturally result in death: implied, where the intent is to commit a felonious or unlawful act but not to kill or injure the particular person*#*;** (Winthrop* s Military Law & Precedents (2nd Ed) sec.lO^l, p.673).
**Malice or malice aforethought is the element which distinguishes murder at common law and, commonly, under the statutes defining murder,
• from other grades of homicides.****** (29 C.J., sec.60, p.lO&0.
The distinction between murder and voluntary manslaughter is stated as follows:
•'Manslaughter is distinguished from murder by the absence of deliberation and malice aforethought", (l Wharton's Criminal Law, sec.423, p.64.0).
"Manslaughter is ’Unlawful homicide without malice aforethought and is either voluntary . or involuntary". (M.C.M., sec.. 149, p.165).
"At common.law a killing,ensuing from sudden transport' of passion or heat of blood, if upon sudden combat, was also manslaughter, and the statutory definition of voluntary manslaughter has oh some jurisdictions been made expressly to include a killing without malice in a sudden fray. However, a sudden combat-is ordinarily considered upon the ,	same	footing as other provocations operating
to create such passion as temporarily to unseat the judgment". (29 Corpus Juris, sec.115, p.1128).
"The proof of homicide, as necessarily involving malice, must show the facts under which the killing was effected, and from the whole facts and circumstances surrounding the killing the jury infers malice or its absence. Malice in connection with the crime of killing is but another name for a certain condition of a man's heart or mind, and as no one can look into the heart or mind of another, the only way to decide
upon its condition at the time of a killing	422
237327
CONFIDENTIAL
- 17 -
LuiHtlLihNTiAL
is to infer it from the surrounding facts and that inference is one of fact for a jury. The presence or absence of this malice or mental condition marks the boundary which separates the two crimes of murder and manslaughter". (Stevenson v. United States, 162 U.S. 313, 320; 40 L. Ed. 980, 983) (Cf. Jerry Wallace v. United States, 162 U.S. 466, 40 L.‘ Ed. 1039,•
John Brown v. United States, 159 U.S. 100, 40 L. Ed. 90).
Considering all of the testimony in the case - that of the defense as well as that of the prosecution - it is impossible to discover any evidence of mutual combat between accused and deceased. Such idea is positively negatived and is no.t worthy of further discussion.
(a)	A homicide committed under such provocation or disturbance as to displace the accused's powers of reasoning, judgment and discretion with anger, passion, fright or other mental and emotional derangement is manslaughter - hot murder. Malice aforethought or premeditation ordinarily do not coexist in the human mental processes with anger, passion or fright, and it is the presence of malice aforethought which steps up a homicide from manslaughter to murder. (CM ET0 72, Jacobs and Farlev;,CM ETO 82.. McKenzie).
The prosecution's evidence of the events Immediately preceding the homicide summarizes as follows:
A group of 20 to 25 soldiers, passengers on the bus arriving • from Derby crowded about the camp entrance. Accused had demanded . that they exhibit their passes. There was loud talk and some profanity. Deceased, Brown and Hersey were late in arriving and were at the rear of the crowd of soldiers. The deceased was in a condition of helpless intoxication under the care of Brown and Hersey. He had his arms about their necks and they in turn had their arms and hands at his back. They "dragged him" and it was necessary to support him to prevent him from falling to the ground. He required assistance in walking. He was sick and vomited after leaving the bus but prior to reaching the corner. His talk was a "mumble", which could not be understood even by his escorts. The trio haled when they arrived at the corner, standing, on a line parallel with and about 7 or 8 ft from,the end of the building. Deceased continued to mumble, but was neither noisy nor boisterous and until accused turned and faced him, he said nothing to accused. His mumbling was not directed at accused, but was obviously the diffuseness of a drunken man. Brown and Hersey were not disorderly or noisy nor did they direct any remarks to accused. Accused had been facing the camp with his rifle at port-arms. He faced about and simultaneously -threw a cartridge into the chamber. HeO^ approached the trio. Brown informed accused that they had a drunkenr.^’ man, and asked permission to take him through the gate. Corporal Kontella approach©^	"I'll take charge of that man". Accused
18
confidential
UuiuiutKTIAl
(363)
replied: "Better get him out of here." Accused, upon facing about brought his Garand M-l rifle from port-arms to a horizontal position about level with his hips and had it pointed at deceased, Brown and Hersey. The end of the barrel of the rifle was 2 or 3 yards from the three soldiers. The deceased then murmured something and accused replied: "Shut up, or I'll shoot". Deceased said: "Go ahead and shoot, I'd rather be dead than the way.I am now" or "I would rather be dead than the way I feel". Accused retorted: "Do you think I am kidding?" and then discharged the rifle. Tv*o shots were fired in rapid succession. Deceased fell to the ground. Accused did not at any time order deceased, Brown or Hersey to halt, . A soldier from the 156th Infantry rushed over to the sentry and said: "Please let us take him through the gate. The man is dying". . Accused continued to point his gun towards deceased, now prone on the ground, and replied: "You ain't taking him no place." A Sergeant or Corporal intervened with: "Go on, let him take him through". Thereupon deceased was . carried through the entrance to the orderly room. One of prosecution's witnesses (Brunson) testified that accused appeared to be "mad at somebody" before he came on duty, but nothing occurred in the witness's presence to make the guard "mad". Another witness for the prosecution (Dean) testified that accused appeared- to be in his normal state of mind; was not tense or excited nor was there anything unusual in his attitude. The other witnesses for the prosecution made no mention of anything unusual in accused's emotional or mental condition.
The accused's version of the events is as follows:
He was directed by the O.D. to check all passes; such direction being given accused immediately prior to the arrival of the bus at Hilton. Soon thereafter a crowd of 20 or 30 soldiers arrived on the bus and presented themselves to accused for entrance to the camp. He demanded they exhibit t eir passes. Corp. Dean appeared and, standing in the rear of accused and nearest the entrance, assisted, in checking the passes. He stopped those soldiers whose passes had not been examined by accused. The deceased came around the corner. Accused turned his flash-light on him and ordered him to halt but deceased continued to advance.. Accused called "halt" the second time. and deceased said: "You, black mother-fucker". Accused "halted" him a third time but accused "didn't see him like he stopped walking". Accused turned off his flash-light and then shot deceased. Two cartridges were discharged from the rifle. Accused v?as not angry because of the vile epithet applied to him by deceased, because he "had been called 'Kother-fucker' lots of times and didn't mind or didn't care anything about it". He didn't fire because he had been called a bad name. As far as accused knew there was only one man who came around the corner. There could have been more than one, but he did not look and he didn't know whether or not deceased was drunk because he "had not been around drunken soldiers". He did not call halt a fourth time, although deceased did not hear the first time, because "you're not supposed to halt no fourth time. You challenge
£22
237327
- 19 - P.PflHnFNTIAL
CCmHDENTlAL ,
(36A)
three times. If they don't halt the third time, I fire". The O.D. did not tell him to do that. When he pointed his rifle at deceased he wasn't aiming, to hit or kill him. He didn't aim at him. He pointed his rifle in the direction he heard footsteps to scare the person approaching,- He didn't turn his flash-light on nor call the Corporal of the Guard after shooting because he didn't figure he had hit the man.
The function of the Court was to judge the credibility of witnesses, weigh the evidence before it and reconcile conflicts therein. It heard and saw the witnesses and made its finding and thereby determined that accused acted with premeditation and malice aforethought. The Board of Review, sitting in appellate review, treats the finding of the Court as presumptively correct and its duty is to determine if such finding is supported by substantial evidence. (CM ETO 132, Kelly and Hvde: CM 203511, Wedmore: CM 223336 (1942) Bui. JAG., Vol.I, No.3, sec.422, p.159).
The evidence presented by the prosecution, standing alone, is highly convincing that accused when he discharged his rifle at deceased was not acting under heat of passion, anger or fright nor suffering from mental or emotional derangement or disorder. One witness (Brunson) was impressed with the idea that accused was "mad" because of the manner in which he told deceased "to shut up or I'll shoot you", and that he must have been "mad" when he came on duty. However:
"Mere anger,in and of itself, is not sufficient, but must be of such a character as to prevent the individual from cool reflection and the control of his actions. Such passion must be produced by due and adequate provocation, and be such that would cause an ordinary man to act upon the impulse of the moment, engendered by such passion and without due reflection and the formation of a determined purpose".
(l Y/harton's Criminal Law, sec.426, p,647).
Another witness for the prosecution denied accused was tense or excited or there was anything unusual in his attitude. The remainder of the witnesses were silent on the subject of accused's mental and’emotional reactions.
It is manifest that accused, himself, corroborated a vital' element of the prosecution's case. After asserting that deceased applied an obscene epithet to him upon being "halted" the second time, accused declared that he had been called such epithets "lots of times and didn't care about it", and that he did not fire because deceased ■ had called him a bad name. • In response to the question as to why he did not "halt" deceased a fourth time, although deceased did not hear his command the first time, he replied: "you're not supposed to halt no fourth time. You challenge three times. If they don't halt the third time, I fire".	4:23
237327
CONFIDENTIAL
20
Uui'inLJcN 11AL
(365)
Accused disclaimed all anger because he was called a vile name (the "bad name" incident was cleanly disproved by the prosecution's evidence and it was most probably a creation of accused's imagination) and offered as the sole explanation for his act the alleged fact that deceased failed or refused to halt after having received the order three times. Deceased was "mumbling" and may have been heard by accused, but it is a striking fact that accused makes no mention of it and does not charge deceased with such conduct. The accused, described his mental and emotional condition at the time he shot deceased in such manner as to confirm the prosecution's evidence that he was not acting under provocation and was free from anger or passion.
There is therefore no evidence in the record that accused shot deceased under the spell or urge of anger, passion or other mental or emotional derangement, but oppositely it affirmatively appears that accused was acting entirely free from such influences and deliberately and with malice aforethought shot deceased. "If they don't halt the third time, I fire". In the opinion of the Board of Review the Court could not have reached a conclusion other than it did.
(b)	Accused insisted that when he pointed his rifle at deceased he did not intend to hit or kill him; that he didn't aim at deceased and that he only pointed his rifle in the direction he heard footsteps in order to scare the person approaching.
By its finding the Court expressed its disbelief of accused's explanation of the killing and such conclusion is binding on the Board of Review. The Board of Review is however, in complete agreement with the finding of the Court. Accused's contention in this respect was entirely futile. It is neither a defense nor a matter in mitigation.
"Llere use of deadly weapon does not of itself raise a presumption of malice on the part of the accused; but where such a weapon is used in a manner likely to, and does cause death, the law presumes malice from the act", (l Yfharton's Criminal Law (12th Ed.), sec.426, p.655).
"A specific intent to kill does not enter into the definition of murder at common law or under statutes declaratory thereof; it is sufficient if the unlawful killing is with malice aforethought either express or implied, and a homicide may be malicious, and hence may be murder, although there was no actual design to take life. If .an unlawful act, dangerous to, and indicating disregard of, human life, causes the death of another, the perpetrator is
COIumDENTIAL
237827
(366)
GUhHDENTIAL
guilty of murder, although he did not intend to kill. Thus, if an assault was made upon deceased, not with the design of killing him, but of inflicting great bodily harm upon him, it is murder if his death is caused thereby; and it is murder where death results from an assault or other unlawful act, intentionally done in such a manner as was likely to cause death or serious bodily harm, even though there may have been no actual intent to cause death or great bodily harm, but the injury intended must, be such as involves serious consequences, either in endangering life or leading to great bodily -harm, and death or great bodily harm must have been a reasonable or probable consequence of the act.” (29 Corpus Juris, sec.69, p.1095-1096).
”It is murder, malice being presumed or inferred, where death is caused by the intentional and unlawful use of a deadly weapon in a deadly manner provided in all cases that there are no circumstances serving to mitigate, excuse, or justify the act.
The use of a deadly weapon is not conclusive as to malice, but the inference of malice therefrom may be overcome, and where the facts and circumstances of the killing are in evidence, its existence of malice must be determined as a fact from all the evidence.
In order that an implication of malice may arise from the use of a deadly weapon it must appear that its use was willful or intentional, or deliberate. This, like other matters of intent, is to be gathered from the circumstances of the case, such as the fact that accused had the weapon prepared for use, or that it was used in such a manner that the natural, ordinary, and probable result would be to take life."
(29 Corpus Juris, sec.74, p.1099-1101).
/
Accused's testimony clearly shows that he shot the deceased (who he declares was alone) as he came "around the corner" because he failed or refused to heed the warnings to halt. He deliberately pointed his rifle at him and fired. He sought neither to shoot at the ground nor above the deceased, but held the rifle with the level of his hip and horizontal to the ground and discharged it. It was in "a manner that the natural, ordinary and probable result would be to take the life" of the soldier, who was the deceased. This was certainly
422
CONFIDENTIAL
(367)
substantial evidence from which to infer that accused’s use of the deadly weapon "was willful or intentional or deliberate" and it cries aloud the fact that accused acted with malice aforethought.
(c)	Well grounded belief of danger may reduce a homicide from murder to manslaughter, "but, in order to accomplish this, the fear must be such as a reasonable man would entertain under the circumstances of the homicide. Mere fear, apprehension or belief, though honestly entertained, when not justifiable, will not excuse or mitigate a killing where the danger was not urgent." "Danger must be present, active and imminent to constitute a-reasonable belief of danger."
(l Wharton's'Criminal Law, sec.426, p.655).
Accused testified that he did not know whether the lone man (meaning the deceased) was going to come up to him and strike him (R.170). Sergt. Hill in his testimony given as a witness for the prosecution testified that accused stated to him after the homicide: "No, I didnjt know whether it was a soldier or not, although he had on soldiers’ clothes", because, he said, "spies dress as American soldiers sometimes" (R.122). This is the total evidence from or on behalf of accused which gives any indication as to whether he entertained any belief of imminent danger. Accused is specific in his testimony that he saw only deceased. He declares he saw neither Brown nor Hersey, and did not know whether deceased was drunk or not. The defense's evidence, therefore, fails to prove (a) that accused had any belief that he was in imminent danger or (b) that there was in fact any present, active danger.	\	.
When, however, the prosecution's	evidence is considered	in
connection with accused's sketchy testimony on this point, there is substantial	evidence that	not	only danger	did not exist but	also	that
accused did	not entertain	the	belief that	he was in danger.	At	the
time accused approached deceased there yet remained near him a number of soldiers seeking entrance to the camp. The acting Corporal of the Guard (Dean) was in close proximity. Deceased was intoxicated to the degree that he was physically helpless and was under the care of Brown and Hersey. The trio, after reaching the corner of the building, advanced no further. Brown asked for accused's permission to take deceased through the entrance, explaining that he was drunk. Accused gave no warning, but approached deceased and ordered him to "shut up", threatening to shoot him. Deceased last words: "Go ahead and shoot.
I'd rather be dead than the way I feel" were not a threat, but the complaint of an inebriated man. Accused then discharged two bullets into deceased. ..Any contention that accused was actuated by fear is therefore, without shadow or substance, and is considered by. the Board of Review only because it falls within the ambit of the general discussion.
12.	There is another aspect of the case which in the opinion of the Board of Review requires some consideration. Accused testified that the O.D. (Lieut. Porter) directed him to check all passes of
confidential
237827
- 23
422
CunriOENHAL
soldiers returning to camp that evening. Such testimony is not contradicted and it received a certain amount of corroboration through the evidenoe of Sergt, Hill (R.126,127) who, without objection from the prosecution, testified that at an investigation of the homicide, accused asserted that he was checking the passes on the evening of 5 February 194-3 under orders ,of the O.Dj that Lieut,
Porter was present at the investigation when accused made such assertion, but did not deny it. Lieut. Porter was not introduced as a witness by either the prosecution or defense. The Hill testimony on this point should have been excluded by the Law Member had timely objection been made by the trial judge advocate, as it is clearly hearsay and inadmissible, but it is in the record for what it is worth. It is therefore, assumed for the purpose of this discussion, that the O.D., did give such order to accused and that accused was acting under such order and authority when he stopped the returning soldiers and demanded that they exhibit their passes, ' According to the defense's theory accused ordered deceased three times to halt as he approached the entrance for the purpose of checking his pass.
Deceased refused or failed to comply with either of the three commands and as a result accused shot him in the performance of his duty.
The difficulty with this contention is that it is not consistent with the facts of the case. Granted as a major premise that accused received orders to check all passes of the returning soldiers, the evidence fails to support the remaining necessary elements to make the defense valid.
"That the act charged as an offence was done in obedience to the order—verbal or written —of a military superior, is, in general, a good defence at military law.
The act, however, must have'been duly done— must not have been either wanton or in excess of the authority or discretion conferred by . the order. Thus an officer or soldier ordered to suppress a mutiny or disorder or to make an arrest, a guard ordered to keep in custody a prisoner, or a sentinel ordered to prevent persons from passing his post, will not be justified in taking life or in resorting to extreme violence, where the object of the order can be effectually accomplished by more moderate and customary means: otherwise where the forcible resistance of the party, his persistence in disregarding warnings, his sudden flight, etc., render it impracticable to seize or stop him without extreme violence or the use of a deadly weapon." (7/inthrop's Military Law and Precedents, (Reprint), p.296).
422
. ,, . CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(369)
"A homicide_done in the proper performance of a legal duty is justifiable. Thus, executing a person pursuant to a legal sentence of death; killing in suppressing a mutiny or in preventing the escape of a prisoner where no other possible means are adequate; killing an enemy in battle; and killing to prevent the commission of a felony attempted by force or surprise, such as murder, burglary, or arson, are cases of justifiable homicide. The general rule is that the acts of a subordinate officer or soldier, done in good faith and without malice in compliance with his supposed duty, or of superior orders, are justifiable, unless such acts are manifestly beyond the scope of his authority, and such that a man of ordinary sense and understanding would know to be illegal. (Wharton on Homicide).”
(M.C.M., par.I48, p.162-163).
There is not only substantial evidence to support the conclusion that accused did not give deceased timely warning, but also the quantity and quality of the evidence is such that the Court could not have found otherwise than it did. Such finding is conclusive on the Board of Review. On this basis the accused approached deceased(who was helplessly intoxicated and was then supported by Brown and Hersey) ordered him to "shut up” and threatened to shoot him. Upon deceased answering "Go ahead and shoot. I would rather be dead than the way I feel", accused replied: "Do you think I am kidding?" He then shot deceased. There was no attempt by accused to check deceased's pass pursuant to his orders from the O.D. No demand was'made on either the deceased or his companions to produce their passes. Brown had asked for permission to take deceased into camp explaining deceased was drunk. tlontella as superior N.C.O. present had informed accused: "I'll take charge of that man". . In the face of this situation, accused discharged his rifle at deceased. Accused's contention Is, therefore, destroyed by the facts of the case.
If the issue be premised upon accused's statement that three times he gave deceased the warning to halt; that deceased continued to approach even after the third command and that he shot deceased because he failed or refused to heed the warning, there is, nevertheless, no comfort for the accused. There is substantial evidence in the record from which the Court was fully justified in concluding that . accused resorted to extreme violence when he might have carried out his orders to check•deceased's pass by more moderate and customary means. This was essentially a question of fact within the exclusive province of the Court, and inasmuch as its finding is sustained by substantial evidence it is accepted by the Board1of Review as final.
The contention ix of accused that he killed deceased in the performance of a duty imposed upon him by the Officer of the day does not possess
237327
CONFIDENTIAL
- 25 -
UUNrtUtlUIAL
(370)
even a modicum of merit.'
.13. The record clearly and emphatically establishes beyond a reasonable doubt accused's guilt of the murder of deceased. , The homicide was cruel, ruthless, and premeditated without a shadow of excuse or pretense in mitigation. Acpused exhibited his brutal, savage nature in his preliminary approach to deceased, in the aot of killing and in his subsequent attitude with reference to deceased's body, "You ain't taking him no place". The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the finding of murder.
14.	Charge II and its Specification charges accused with committing an assault upon Pvt. Philip H. Brown with intent to do him ' bodily harm by shooting him in the left hand with a dangerous weapon, to wit, a rifle. Certain of the facts and circumstances connected with the actual shooting of O'Connell by accused are relevant in considering the assault committed by accused on Brown. They are hereinbefore set forth in detail and repetition thereof is unnecessary. It is sufficient to summarize the ultimate facts giving rise to the ^ charge.
Brown and Hersey were the escorts of deceased, O'Connell, on the night of 5 February 1943.. They took cognizance of the latter's extreme intoxication when he dismounted from the bus arriving in Hilton from Derby and attempted to assist him to reach his barracks. Hersey was on deceased's left side with his right arm about deceased. Brown was on deceased's right side with his left arm about deceased.
The palm of Brown's hand rested approximately on deceased's left shoulder-blade. The three soldiers stood in this pose parallel with the end of the building but 7 or 8 ft therefrom. There is no -evidence that accused knew Brown personally or that he had ever had any contact with him. This was their first meeting. It is manifest, however, that accused saw Brown and Hersey supporting and holding deceased when he discharged his rifle in their direction. The bullet from accused's rifle, which killed O'Connell, passed through his body and upon its exit, struck Brown's left hand, penetrated it, and inflicted a serious and painful wound which may leave permanent, partial impairment. The 93rd Article of War denounces the offense as follows:
"Any person subject to military law who commits **** assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon, instrument or other thing **** shall be punished as a court-martial may direct."
The Manual for Courts-Martial discusses the offense as follows:
422
237327
-	—	-	rtmirinniTUI
CONFIDENTIAL
(371)
"This is an assault aggravated by the specific present intent to do bodily harm to the person assaulted by means of the force employed. It is not necessary that any battery actually ensue, or, if bodily harm is actually inflicted, that it be of the kind intended. V/here the accused acts in reckless.disregard for the safety of others it is not a defense that he did not have in mind the particular person injured. Proof.-(a) That the accused assaulted a certain person, as alleged; and (b) the facts and circumstances of the case indicating the concurrent intent thereby to do bodily harm to such person.”
(1I.C.M., par,149n, p.180).
The assault with which accused is charged is within the group ordinarily classified as "aggravated or other heinous assaults." Its distinguishing element is the presence of the specific intent to inflict bodily harm which must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. A failure in proof of this element cannot be supplied by evidence that the injury was inflicted. Specific intent requires factual proof; it cannot be implied. However, specific intent may be inferred from surrounding facts and circumstances, and such inferences constitute factual proof. •
"Under statutes of this character the intent to inflict an injury, of the kind described by the particular statute, is an essential element of the offense, and the absence of such intent cannot be supplied by the mere fact that the injury is inflicted, although an inference of the intent may be justified from the occasioning of the injury, or the character of ■ the injury, or of the implement employed, or the other circumstances attending the assault. There need not be a specific intent to assault the prosecuting witness, or to inflict the particular kind of injury which resulted; therefore mistake in the identity of the person assaulted affords no excuse."(5 C.J., sec.216. p.739;
6	C.J.S., sec.79(2), p.937).
"The intent to injure another by discharging a loaded gun at him is at least an intent to inflict great bodily injury, and that a party's aim is not true does not change the intent, if it is the purpose and intent to injure." ( 6 C.J.S., sec.79(2), p.938).	£2%
237327
- 27 - CONFIDENTIAL
CummuENTIAL
(372)
✓
Had the deceased, O'Connell, not died, then beyond all peradventure, accused would have been guilty of assaulting him with intent to inflict bodily harm with a dangerous weapon. Accused aimed and discharged his rifle at deceased after threatening to shoot him and after Brown asked permission to take him into camp and Montella stated he would take care of him. These facts together with other circumstances, obvious upon inspection of the record, supply a substantial basis from which the specific intent by accused to inflict bodily harm upon O'Connell may be inferred.
\ . ' .
However, accused is charged with assaulting Brown with intent to inflict bodily harm - not the deceased O'Connell. Will the evidence support the Charge and Specification? Brown was grievously wounded by the same bullet that killed O'Connell. The identical circumstances therefore surrounded the wounding of Brown as enveloped the’ murdering of O'Connell.
It may be true that accused did not contemplate that he would kill O'Connell and wound Brown by the use of the same bullet. The law very wisely does not indulge in abstract or abstruse considerations in transactions of this kind. It deals with practical everyday problems of human relationship and must of necessity adapt itself to same. An accused committing an offense of this nature need not have intended to do only the precise thing which actually followed his assault (People v. Howard, 179 Michigan 478, 146 N.W. 315; People v,
Hiller, 91 Michigan 639, 52 N.W. 65; People v. Kalinki, 123 Michigan 110,
81 N.W. 923; Lambert v. State, 80 Nebraska 562, 114 N.W. 775).
"It is not essential to a conviction for the offense charged that the accused should have intended the precise injury which . • followed as the result of the assault. It is sufficient if serious bodily harm of any kind was contemplated. Peo. v. Miller, 91 Mich. 639, 52 N.W. 65.
XXKX-XKXXXfrXXXXX*
But where the injury proved is the natural and necessary consequence of the deliberate > and inexcusable act of the accused, the inference is that it was the result contemplated by him when the assault was committed, and may be sufficient evidence of the specific intent which is essential to a conviction."
(Kurphey v. State, 43 Nebr. 34, 41,
61 N.W. 491.)(5 Corpus Juris, p.739).
The intent on accused's part to inflict bodily harm on deceased, exhibited by accused's deliberate, malicious killing of deceased Included within its scope the intent to do bodily harm to any person
237327
- 28 - CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(373)
who was or came within, the range of the bullets fired by accused at deceased. Accused displayed "a reckless disregard for the safety of others". Such conduct supplies the proof that accused intended to inflict bodily harm on Brown. The law does not require proof that accused intended that the bullet which killed O'Connell should also have wounded Brown. The requirements are satisfied by the proof that accused intended to inflict bodily harm on deceased and in the execution of such intent Brown was wounded. The specific intent to do bodily harm to O'Connell followed the bullet through his body into Brown's hand. (Cf: CM 22164-0, Loner).
The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of guilty of Charge II and its Specification,	■
15.	An accused convicted of murder under the 92nd Article of War "shall suffer death or life imprisonment as the court-martial may direct". Conviction of the offense of "assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon, instrument or thing" under the 93rd Article of War permits the imposition of such punishment as the court-martial may direct excepting the death penalty. The accused in the instant case was found guilty of both offenses and was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to be come due and to be confined
at hard labor for his natural life. The sentence is legal.
In CM ETO 268 Ricks, the accused was found guilty of murder under the 92nd Article of War and was sentenced to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for his natural life. The Board of Review(AJAG., ETOUSA, concurring) held that part of the sentence involving total forfeitures to be void, but sustained the sentence ?;ith respect to the dishonorable discharge and life imprisonment. ‘The instant case is distinguishable from the Ricks case inasmuch as the present accused was convicted not only of . murder under AW 92 but also of assault with Intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon under AW 93.	'	The finding of guilty of the
additional Charge under AW 93 furnishes the legal basis for sustaining that part of the sentence adjudging total forfeiture.
16.	Accused is of the age of 24- years. He has been sentenced to confinement for life as punishment for an act "recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by some statute of general application within the continental United States", and which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Therefore confinement in the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, is proper, (AW 42; War Department Directive 2/26/41, AG 253 (2-6-4l)E). Accused's return to the United States and execution of sentence to dishonorable discharge is authorized. (GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 Sept 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 Dec 1942).
237327	"29“	CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
17. The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the accused and the offense. . No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights ,of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
423
237827
- 30 -
CONFIDENTIAL
i375)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG with ETOUSA. MAY 1945 TO: Commanding General, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA.
1.- In the case of Pfc. WILLARD GREEN (NMI), (34072287), Company A, 3S3rd Engineer Battalion (Separate), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50£, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence* \ .
2. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, ' they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement* The file number of the record in this office is ETO 422. For convenience ofv reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: ^ETQ 422).
1 Incl: '
Opinion of Board of Review.

#(377)
