#(201)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 969
UNITED STATES. j
v.	)
)
Private LEE.A. DAVIS (18023362),	)	.
Company "C", 248th Quartermaster ) Battalion (Service).	|
)
• >• 3; DEC 1943
> ■ '
1
SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVIOES OF STJPPIX, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Tottenham House, Marlborough, Wiltshire, England, 6-7-26 October 1943. Sentence *‘ To he hanged by the neck until dead.'
• "	"' T	'	T	1
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1. The record of trial in the oase of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, '.to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.	,	.	•	•
J 2. Accused was tried upon the following Charge and specifications*
CHARGE* Violation of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification 1* In that Private Lee A. Davis,
Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion (Service) did, at or about London Hill,
Marlborough, Wilts, England, on or about,
28 September 1943, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation,.kill one,
Cynthia June Lay, a human being, by shooting her with a rifle.
Specification 2* In that Private Lee A. Davis,
Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion .
(Service) did, at or about London Hill,
Marlborough, Wilts, England, on or about 28 September 1943, forcibly and feloiiiously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Miss Muriel Joyce Rosalie Fawden, a female - person.
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
• i
He pleaded not guilty to and was.found guilty of the Charge and of the specifications thereunder all members of the court concurring. Evidence of three previous convictions was introduced as follows: (a) absence without leave and disrespect to an officer in violation,of Articles of War 61 and 96; (b) absence without leave for two days in violation of Article of War 61; and (c) failure to obey the order, of a noncommissioned officer in violation of Article of War 65. He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead all members of the court concurring. The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer,' Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, approved the sentence and forwarded the record, of trial for action under Article of War AS. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing the execution thereof, pursuant to Article . of War 50|-. . ' .	.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows that during the early afternoon of 28 September 1943 Miss Muriel Joyce Rosalie Fawden, Station House, Castle Cary, Somerset, an employee of Savernake Hospital, went to the motion pictures in Marlborough. Upon leaving the theater about 7:45 p.m. she met a friend, Miss June Lay, and both girls started walking toward Savernake Hospital (R63,184). Miss Fawden testified in; pertinent part as follows:
"We got half-way up the hill to the hospital,
X think about quarter past eight, and a colored American soldier came up from behind and spoke to us. He said 'How far are you going?' We both answered 'We are going to ■ the hospital.' He said 'How far is that?' and I said 'Just up there,' and with that he dropped behind us again.
A few minutes afterwards 1 heard a voice behind us say 'Stand still, or I'll shoot' or_ words to that effect - I can't really remem-, ber. the exact words. We both turned rdund, hardly believing our ears, and we saw a colored American soldier standing levelling a rifle at us.
He told us to get over the other side of the road, into the bushes. We sort of went towards that side of the road, and tried to stall him. We said we could not get into the bushes because there was barbed wire there, which was a lie - we were trying to stall him. We said it was much better further down *the road, so we walked backwards, facing him, down the road, and he still levelled the rifle at us.
Then June said to me 'Run, Muriel;' we both started to run, and then I heard shots.
- 2 -
CONFIDENTS
CONFIDENTIAL
I was in front - I was leading June behind - and 3J looked round and June was still running, and I heard more.shots, and I turned round and June 'threw up her arms and screamed, and rolled over in " the road.
Well, I then turned my back and started running hard, and I could hear ■ more shots, -and had the impression of bullets whistling past me, so I stopped dead in my tracks, because. I thought the next one would go in my back, I didn’t turn round, I just stayed there as I was, with my back towards fyim. Then after a few seconds he caught me up and caught hold of my arm and pulled me through the barbed wire - at least, he ordered me to get through the barbed wire, and we crouched there for a few minutes listening,
• I had a whi,te mackintosh on, and he stood over mg with the gun and said ’Take your white coat off. When we run it will show up’. I could not takeny mackintosh off without taking my gloves off, which I did, aijd for some Reason or pther I sort of handed thqm to him - ,1 mean I don’t know why I did it, but I did, and he took them from me, and then I took my mac off and just left it where we were crouching. Then we went further up into the Forest, up on the hill into the grass, and stayed there a few minutes listening, and I heard a lorry come down the hill and stop, and I knew June had been found, and I knew that people would start searching for me.
Then he stood over me-with the gun,
.and he sa^-d ’Either you do what I want you to do or you die, I am going to count ten,’ So he started to count ten. I did,1 not want to die, so I had no option but to give in to him.
After that" I asked him if he would let me go- and he said, he would if I’d show him the way to the railway line, so I took him over in the direction I thought the railway line lay. Of course-it was dark,’ and when we got there the bushes were thick and I found we- couldn't get through, so we turned and started to go back more in the direction that we had
CONFIDENTIAL
(204)
■ I
come, and I could see torches and I knew that they were searching for me. So then he pulled me down behind a.bush and said •If you dare move or make a sound I will shoot you, so I didn't, and after ^ while the torches went away, and then we went further on and through a wicket gate, and over the old gate just to the left there werp some haystacks, and we went-in there, and I said 'won't you let me go now' and he said 'No, I am not going to let you go until morning' so: I sort of felt in my mind that he knew that I was the only one that had witnessed anything. I sort of felt.that he was contemplating whether he , was going to shoot me or not> so I knew, it was up to me to do all I could to save my life. .
So we talked for a. little while and' I saw torches-going across the top of the field, and he said 'What are those lights?' and I said 'Why, I don't think it ip any- ■ thing?.- He said 'If anybody comes near I've got thirty rounds of ammunition.. I, shall phoot whoevever comes near.' And the torches went away again. An then he forced me again.	,
Q.	Miss Fawden, Torced you' You mean he had carnal knowledge of you?-'A. Yes. Then I just started talking, I never talked so hard in all my life. I told him that I was a nurse at- the hospital, which - was untrue, and I thought I should get into a row for-being out all night, and if he would let me go back I'd get into bed -I was most unscrupulous - I mean, I told lies all the time. My maiir object was to get away with my- life - and I can't remember half that I did talk about. I know that I blasphemed. I asked him if he was a Christian. I sai,d I would forgive him, but it was only to save my life. I could see that these words were having an effect on him, so I played on them and after a while he said he would let me go. I said 'Won't you be afraid to walk back to thes hospital by yourself?' Well, I wasn't going to say no or yes. I -said 'Oh, I don't think so' or something like that, so he said I will
- 4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
I
CONFIDENTIAL
come a little way with you.
So he came as far as the wicket gate with me. By this time he had slung the rifle over his right shoulder and wasn’t holding it any more. So I sort of said ’Good-bye’ to him - I don’t know how - I can't remember. . I turned away and I fully expected to have a shot in my back# but it didn't come. So I ran across the forest in the direction of the hospital, and.when I got to the top I got lost in the trees.
I remember getting through some barbed wire and I found myself going down the same slope that we had come up earlier in the evening, and then I saw lights in front of me and I think ,1 shouted ’Help’ or something like that' and the policy found me, it was a policeman, and other police took me bqck to the hospital.(R184--186).
(205)
Kiss Fqwden further testified that the incident occurred "quite near the hospital off the London Hil}", Marlborough, Wiltshire County, England. Her assailant was the same person who shot Miss lay. . He wore a khaki overcoat, put it on the grass and told her to lie on it. She identified as hers a pair of gloves which she had given him that .evening, and also a "white mac", (R186; Pros.Exs.U,20J.
Mrs. Lucy L. Fawden, Station House, Castle Cary, Somerset, Kiss Fawden's mother, identified the gloves as belonging to her.daughter by the initials "F.A" which were the marks used by a cleaner for all Mrs. Fawden's linen. She produced at the trial a table napkin marked in the same manner and also identified her daughter’s mackintosh which was admitted in evidence .($55 J Pros.Exs.il,20),	.	>
About 12:10 a.m. 29 September 194-3, Police Constable Albert E. Boyer, stationed at Marlborough, heard the screams of a woman coming from the direction of Savernake Forest. He searched the forest and found Miss Fawden who was hysterical and distressed.. She told Boyer that she had been raped twice by a colored soldier who had "fired two shots at June and marked me off to some haystacks in the forest with a rifle pointing in my ribs". She also told him that "**** it will be terrible if I have a black baby". Mr. Albert C» Smith, 2 Lees Road, Marlborough, heard her say "My God, my god, where am I *** I have been raped". . Boyer took her to the Savernake Hospital (R103-104-,106,109-111).	When she arrived at
the hospital .about 12: 30 a.m. MiS3 Fawden, who was stiU hysterical, nervous and in great mental distress, was immediately undressed. Removed from her body were a pair of camiknickers, an underveat, a suspender belt and a pair of stockings (R95-9&,99-101; Pros.Exs.13-16). She was immediately physically examined by Dr. Timothy K. Maurice of Kingsbury Hill House, Marlborough who found that she was trembling and obviously suffer-
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(206)
ing from a grave emotional disturbance. : Her. hair was dishevelled, there was considerable dried blood and bruising about her genitals and the bleeding appeared to emanate from, her* hymen which had been recently torn and lacerated;..,, in the opinion of Dr. Maurice she had been subject to violence and'heiv^juries had been caused .by_the introduction of a male , organ; penetration had' occurred (R15-16).' He testified that the injuries could have beep caused by an instrument.or.thing other than a male organ (R18). After the examination she-was put to bed. On the first day of the trial (6 October 19A3) MiS3 Fawden, who was about 22 years of age wa3 in the hospital, her mental condition was still rather critical and large doses of hypnotics were being admistered.. She was excitable and more than ordinarily emotional (R17). . On 30 September 1943, her blood type was determined to be ”0” by Dr. Charles J. Baschall, The Gables, Burbage, Wiltshire (R179). .	-
N About 8:10 p.m., 28 September 19A3,. George E. Browning^ 2 South View, Marlborough, a porter at Savernake Hospital, was on a railway bridge at London Hill and heard two Shots in quick succession, a scream and a scuffle^ . He ran."towards where the shots were fired," saw a Lorry' stop and men' jump out. ' He saw June Lay, whom he recognized, lying on .the ■ ground.1 She, was aliye, was coughing and bipod was running from.her face 4R28-29).	'	'	^	7'	./
Francis Beasley; 35 Deansway,. Chippenham,"Just after eight , o'clock" on the evening of 28 September was driving a lorry toward . Chippenham when jae noticed the body of a woman lying on Marlborough Hill. He left a friend at the scene and drove to Marlborough where he informed the police (R26).	;	'.	"	\	.
^	.	About	8»A5	p.m.	28 September, Dr. Maurice wept to the place where
Miss Lay was found which Was about 200 yards above a railroad bridge on the main London road leading out of Marlborough. He found Miss Lay, whom he knew, lying on the main road.1 Examination showed that she had not ,. ^een dead for more than a half hour (R12-13).' 1
A post-mortem on the body of, Miss Lay was performed on 29 September 19A3 'by Dr. Baschall, assisted by Dr. Maurice who took notes at the former’s dictation. Dr.' Baschall, reading from his notes, testified that
the results of the post-mortem were in part as follows:
• . . , / .. • ,
‘ '
"The body iras of a stout young woman.*Rigor
Mortis is present. . There are several external
woundb._ ’•	_	_
(l) A small1 circular,, clean-cut perforated
wound about "i" in diameter situated about 3"
above the. left external auditory meatus*1 '
Secondly, an irregular wound situated 2"
' anterior to the first wound.. This irregular
would is approximately 3/8" from above down- ,
wards and across.	*
- 6 «•
CONFIDENTIAL'
CONFIDENTIAL
(207)
3.	An irregular-circular wound just above- -the canthus of the right eye. This one is 3/4" in diameter. There is some dark mottling on the skin round this wound, and two small pieces of the skin has been removed for the purpose of microscopic examination.
4.	A perforating wound 3/4” in diameter•about 4" distal to and slightly anterior to the right acromio-clavicular joint.
5.	A perforating wound in diameter 1" to the left of the mid-line at the back.and at the level of the spine of the eighth dorsal, vertebrae. • ■
6.	-JHHHHHHHHHf-.
7.	***mx **■»*». in the right pleural. cavity a wound was found I2" posterior to the body of the seventh dorsal vertebrae. This wound was large enough to admit the tip of the index finger and wa3 found to be in communic-• ation with the wound mentioned in ’5* - that is, the perforating wound near the mid-line of the back.. Also in the right pleural cavity was another wound, in the right mid-axillary line, which had fractured the fifth rib. Examination of the right lung showed
a wound in the posterior part of the lower lobe, and another slightly.anterior, above and lateral to the former. These two wounds communicated with each other through a narrow track passing through the lung tissue. Further , explorations showed that the wound fracturing the fifth rib passed through the axilla and was in communication with the one mentioned in *4' - that is, the wound in the region of . the right acromio-clavicular joint. The left lung did not show any abnormality.
There is a fracture of the right humerus, 1" below the surgical neck. The site of the fracture is in a straight line joining the wound in the back, that is number *5’, the wounds in the right pleural cavity and the wound in the right shoulder (number '4')•
The head:	The	hair	was moist with blood.
The wound over the right external auditory meatus had perforated the skull and was in communication with the wound on the•inner side of the right orbit. The bones of the skull between these two points were in fragments, the largest fragment being approximately
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
2" square. The posterior border of this fragment, was formed by the left coronal suture.
This suture' had separated for some. distance above the fracture, approximately as far as to 2” to the right of the mid-line of the skull. The anterior part of the left frontal lobe of the brain was lacerated. The wound 2" anterior to the one over the left ear was apparently caused by one of the fragments of bone." (fi.9-10)..
The conclusion reached by the two doctors was that Miss Lay's death had been sudden and violent, and was caused by two bullet wounds, one pene-.trating the brain and ^he other penetrating the lung (Rll,14).
^ A certified copy of an entry of death of Miss Cynthia June Lay with the exception of that part thereof entitled "Cause of Death" was ^admitted in evidence with the consent of the defense (R19j. Pros.Ex.l).
About 8:25 p.m. 28 September, Police Sergeant William J. Willis, stationed at Marlborough, arrived at the scene, found the body of'a woman lying in the road and immediately drew chalk marks around the body, which was not moved until-photographs were later taken. Upon inquiry he found that the deceased was Miss June Lay. She was lying on London Hill, a half to three-quarters of a mile from Marlborough and about 500 yards from Savernake Hospital (R22-24). 'Photographs were taken about 12:30 a.m. (29 September) by Detective Sergeant Reginald T.M., Butler, Photographic Branch, British Constabulary, Devizes. One picture was a view of the body facing towards Marlborough, another of ‘tlie body facing towards Savernake Forest. The following day Butler took two photographs of the road where Miss Lay was found, one being a general view of the road towards Marlborough and the other towards Savernake Forest. The four photographs which-were identified by Sergeant Willis as correct reproductions of the scenes intended to be portrayed were respectively admitted in evidence (R20,23-24; Exs. A,B,C,D). On 1 October, Butler took a photograph of a stake "showing where various articles of clothing were found" (R20) (Later admitted in evidence as Ex.E).
About 11:10 p.m* 28 September, Mr. Albert G. Smith, who was one of a group of men searching the area, found a lady's brown woolen scarf on the ground near a wire fense on the side of the road.	About eight
yards away on the other-side of the fence," Constable Boyer found an American soldier's "forage cap" lying on the ground about_60 yards from where the body of Miss Lay was found (R103-105,109).	Boyer identified
Pros.Ex,19 as the cap which he had found, and marked the spot by placing an "X" on a photograph which was-then admitted in evidence as Ex.E (R105-106). Smith marked with a "Y".on Ex.E the place where he found the scarf (Rill). - About 10:15 p.m. 28 September, Sergeant W.J. Gale of the
- 8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(209)
Wiltshire Special Constabulary found a lady's mackintosh on the ground about ten yards inside the wire fence. He identified Pros.Ex.20 as the c'oat which he found' and designated the spot on Ex.E by placing a "Z"	'
thfereon (R112). At 7sl5 a.m*. 29 September, Detective Sergeant Arthur ‘
R.	Hill, stationed at Marlborough found an empty .30 carbine rifle-cartridge about 14- feet from the place where the body of Miss Lay had been discovered. The cartridge was two feet from the curb and on the curb directly opposite the case were splashes of blood. Hill identified Pros.Ex.4 as the cartridge-shell which he had found (R60,115-116,128).
During the evening of 28" September Private James Henderson,
354th Engineer Regiment went to bed in barracks 28 at Iron Gates Camp at 8 p.m.' Sometime during the night he heard a noise in the hut and someone turned on the lights. -A pair of "0.D" trousers were "lying there". He identified a pair of trousers as the ones which were found. On the same evening Sergeant Willie Wilson, Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment was charge of quarters and about 11:30 p.m. entered barrack 28 at Iron Gates -Camp to make a bed check. Henderson gave him the pair of "O.D" trousers which had been discovered. Wilson identified Pros.Ex,6'as the trousers which had been delivered to him by the bloodstains thereon. They were removed by Second Lieutenant A.D. Mothershed,' Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment, who also by the bloodstains identified the trousers as being similar in appearance to the pair which he had taken (R31-33>4S-52).
About 6:15 a.m. 29 September, at Iron Gates Camp a wrinkled *'
"G.P 'overcoat was seen hanging up inside the door of barrack 28 by Private First Class James W. Patterson, Company D, 354th Engine er Regiment. The coat was not there when he went to bed on the night of 28 September, nor did it belong td any of the occupants of barrack 28. The overcoat, and a shirt were taken from the barrack by First Sergeant Bowens, Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment and turned over to Lieutenant Llothershed. Patterson identified Pros.Ex.5 as the overcoat in question, and Bowens and Lieutenant Mothershed both identified Pros.Ex.5 and Pros.Ex.7 a3 similar in appearance to the overcoat and shirt which they had received. There was a bloodstain on the shirt (R168-178).
I
On the morning of 29 September • First Lieutenant Clarence L» Villemez, Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment was the leader of a group of men searching the area around. Barrack 28. About 25 yards from the barrack they discovered a carbine rifle "sticking straight'up, barrel down, in the mud". A clip containing live ammunition was found about 10 or 15 yards away between the rifle and the barracks. Barrack 28 was occupied by Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment which company was not armed with carbines. Lieutenant Villemez turned over the carbine and clip to Lieutenant Mothershed who gave it to Detective Sergeant Hill.
Hill identified Pros.Ex.2 as the carbine-rifle in question. It bore the number 1594722 (R52-53,130-138).
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
It was recorded on-accused's identification tag and service record that his name tras’Lee A. Davis, his serial number 18023362 (Underscoring supplied) and his blood type "0". His identification tags were admitted in evidence* (R8,65r66,70; Pros.Ex.22). Clothing of the members of his company was marked^the first letter of the soldier's surname followed by the last four digits of Ms serial number. • The letter and figure D3362 would’ be used by accused to mark Ms clotMng (R66). The wrinkled overcoat and shirt found in Barrack 28 (Pros.Exs.5,7) were each marked B3362 (R66,173,175-177).	The soldier's cap (Pros.Ex.19) found
near the Wire fence was marked "W8470" (R56,129), which consisted of the first iMtial of the last name and the last four digits of the serial number of a Private J.C. Vfheeler, a member of accused's company (R68,80) who testified that the cap was his, that he had*loaned it to accused 27 September. 194-3 and that accused did not return it (R83). The rifle found outside barrack 28 (Pros.Ex.2) bore the number 1594722 and* had been issued to Wheeler who also* identified tMs rifle as the one issued to Mm (R86,135-137).
Private J.C. Wheeler, Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion was stationed at Iron Gates Camp and occupied the same barrack with accused and five other soldiers. He last saw accused at "chow" about 6:00 p.m. 28 September. After supper Wheeler went by truck to a "show" given at Tottenham House*, left when it was over at about 10-10:30 p.m., returned to Ms quarters and went to bed. When he returned accused ?/as not in Ms bunk which "was made up just like he made it up-that-morning" (R8O-83).' Wheeler was seen at supper about 6:30 p.m. and was also accompaMed to the theater between 7-7:30 p.m. by Private First Class Sylvester McCormack, Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion who sat beMnd him during the entire performance which ended* about 10:00 p.m. McCormack also rode back to camp on a truck with Wheeler (R89-90). Private George F. Hunt, Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion saw Wheeler sitting beMnd Mm at the theater (R93).
Between 11:30 - 12:15 a.m. 28-29 September, Second Lieutenant Carl* H. Schneider, Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion, and Captain Raymond P. Logan of the same company began a bed-check, each taking one half of the company area (R64,74)» Lieutenant Schneider found accused's bunk vacant, it "had not been touched and the fatigue clothes were neatly piled on top of it" (R74-75). He also searched the latrine and shower rooms in Ms half-of the company, area wMch would normally be used by accused, who was not found (R77,87). Captain Logan then ordered the entire company to be assembled in the mess hall for the purpose of determining whether any weapons had been fired, and whether all carbines and "0.D" caps were' accounted for.' The company was assembled about 1 - 1:30
a.m. (29 September). Accused was present at tMS inspection (R64>75).
•• * •
When Wheeler was awakened and told to go to the mess hall with his rifle and "0.D" hat, he looked for Ms rifle but could not find it.
- 10 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(211)
He then took the 'only rifle left in the barrack, which was hanging at the'foot of his bed, and went to the mess hall. The rifle did not belong to him. He did not have his "O.D" cap (Pros.Ex,19) because he had loaned it- to accused on the evening of 27 September and it had not been returned. Wheeler1s own rifle had been inspected 22 September by Lieutenant Schneider and he had not given anyone permission to take it (R82-S6). At the • inspection in the mess hall about 1x15 a.m. Captain Logan examined each carbine to see if it had been fired and looked at each man to see if he was wearing'an "O.D" cap. He read off the number of each carbine to Lieutenant Schneider who checked the number with a card file showing to whom it had been issued. Captain Logan read o'ff the number of the rifle in the hands of Wheeler to Lieutenant Schneider who called for a check of that number because it did not correspond with the number of rifle issued to Wheeler. Accused then said that the carbine was his. Captain Logan again called off the number of the rifle held by Wheeler and the supply-sergeant checked the number with a numerical list of carbine numbers in order to determine to whom the rifle was issued. The list showed that it had been issued to accused, who' had- no rifle at the inspection and who told Captain Logan that he had gone into the hut and found no rifle3 there. The rifle possessed by Wheeler and the other rifles inspected did not appear to have been fired. The rifle assigned to Wheeler (Pros.Ex.2 -found outside barrack 28) was,' according to the records, the only rifle missing at the company inspection, (R6A-65,67,70,75,77). Accused appeared at the inspection in a garrison cap (R69), and Wheeler wore a fatigue cap (R68). Accused was dressed in fatigue clothing as were the other men, but his jacket was unbuttoned and his shoes unlaced (R77). He was sober but "acted extremely nervous and agitated" when he claimed the rifle
(R75).
At the trial, Captain Logan identified accused's gun which Wheeler had in his possession at the inspection, apd which was numbered 159A492. It was admitted in evidence (R69-70j ‘Pros.Ex.'23)r. He also -identified "exhibit A" (actually Pros.Ex.2) as the rifle issued to Wheeler (R68). He further testified that in the barrack in which accused and Wheeler were quartered, there were double bunks, one above the other. Wheeler and accused occupied a double bunk together. The clothing of the men was kept in barrack bags, their field equipment was on one end of their bunks, and the carbines were at the other end. The weapons were not locked and it was possible for one man to appropriate the clothing or weapon of another. Ammunition was not issuf&^ior the performance of guard duty. A check "the next day" disclosed that no ammunition was missing (R68,70-72).	* '
About 11:35 p.m., 28 September, Inspector Alexander Keiller, Special Constabulary, Marlborough received a United States army cap from Boyer. The cap (Pros.Ex,19) was marked W8A70 and was given by Keiller at Iron Gates Camp to Superintendent Walter H, Gibson, Wiltshire Constabulary about 12:55 a.m. 29 September (R56,58,128-129).	At 1:A5 a.m.
- 11 -
CONFIDENTIAL
I
CONFIDENTIAL
29 September, Superintendent Gibson received'from Lieutenant Mothershed a pair<of bloodstained American-khaki trousers'(R57,123). In the hip pocker he found a badly*bloodstained handkerchief marked with the number "3362", a pair of pigskin gloves marked inside with the initials "F.A" in red cotton, a dirty unmarked white handkerchief, and an unmarked khaki service tie. The right hand pocket contained a ,30 carbine live bullet (R57,60-61,123)At A:00 a.m. 29 September at the mess hall, Iron Gates Camp, Superintendent Gibson warned accused as to his rights, who then acknowledged ownership of the trousers and also the handkerchief marked with the number 3362. Accused said that the cap was Private Wheeler's, that he had worn it "last night" but that "to-night"*he had been wearing Philip Hall1s^wool knit cap. Accused said that the gloves belonged to ■ him, that "*** he gave them to me to-night", but that he did not know who "he" was (R57-58,114,123). '	*
Pros.Exs. 6,10,11 were identified as the trousers, bloodstained handkerchief marked 3362, and gloves in question. Pros'.Ex.l2 was identified as a shell similar to the one removed from the poclcet of the ; trousers (R57-58,66,124-125).	•
At 4*30 a.m. 29 September, Detective Sergeant Hill examined accused's undergarments and saw what appeared to be bloodstains on his underpants and shirt. No injuries or abrasions from which the' blood could come' were observed on his body but the middle finger of his .left hand appeared to be stained with blood. Scrapings were taken from underneath and above the finger nails o'f eactr hand and' placed' in separate, marked envelopes (R114-115,122,124,126). The stained underpants and, shirt (Pros.Exs.8,9) were 'identified as the ones worn by and taken fronr accused that morning. The under-pants were marked D-3362 (R66,116,121). Also identified were the envelopes containing the scrapings from accused's ' finger nails (R117,124j Pros.Ex.17).
On 30 September 1943, First Lieutenant William L. Bradford, Corps of Military Police, C3D, SOS, received from Superintendent Gibson the following exhibits* one carbine rifle, a magazine clip w'ith cartridges, an empty cartridge case, greatcoat, trousers, shirt, under-pants and underdrawers, soiled handkerchief, pair pf gloves, two envelopes containing scrapings, woolen scarf,* a cap and a mackintosh. He delivered the articles to Major William J. King, Corps of Military Police (R154-‘156; Pros.Exs. 2-11, 17-21). ’ Major King delivered them to Scotland Yard'where they were sorted for distribution to various technical experts. He again received the exhibits and they were 'returned on 7 October to Lieutenant Bradford who brought them to court (R157,166).	~
( 4
On 4 October a gun expert,-Mr. Robert Churchill, 32 Orange Street,’ Leicester Square, London was given by “Major King a .30 caliber U.S. carbine rifle No.' 1594722 (the gun issued'to Wheeler and found near barrack 28 - Pros.Ex.2), a magazine for the rifle containing 15 rounds of
CONFIDENTIAL
(213)
special carbine ammunition, and a fired shell (found by Hill near the body of Miss Lay - Pros.Ex.4), of identical make and size as the ammunition in the magazine. The rifle was automatic loading but not automatic firing, in that the trigger had to be pulled to fire each shot (R34-35). The fired shell bore four sets of markings, namely, the striker imprint and the breech face, extractor and ejector marks. Mr. Churchill fired from the gun 6 test shots. From a comparison of the extractor markings on the fired shell and those on the test shells, Mr. Churchill was of the opinion that the fired shell (Proa.Ex.4) was fired from the carbine rifle numbered 1594722, and could not have been fired from any other rifle (R35-36). Mr. Churchill used two'of the fifteen rounds of ammunition contained in the clip,' Admitted in evidence were the rifle No. 1594772 (Pros.Ex.2)', the magazines with the cartridges contained therein (Pros. Ex.3) and the fired shell (Pros.Ex.4). The defense consented to the introduction of the exhibits but objected to the withdrawal from the record of the fired shells (R36-37).	"
On 4 October' Mr. James Davidson, Director of the Metropolitan Police Laboratory, an expert pathologist, received from Major King certain property labelled as belonging to accused and Miss Fawden (R39-40). He found human bloodstains belonging t'o group "0" on the outer surface of the lining of the left pocket, and the back inner surface of the overcoat. Mixed with the bloodstains was male seminal fluid. Human bloodstains belonging to group "0" were found in the regions of the left hip and left pocket of a pair of trousers. Upon examination of a United States army shirt, Mir. Davidson found a bloodstained area on the inner surface of the left front near the lower hem. The blood belonged to group "0" and wa3 mixed with seminal fluid. Similarly, a pair of under-pants stamped "D336211 bore evidence of blood smearing mixed with seminal fluid on the front in the region of the fly opening, and the front outer surface of a cotton under-shirt was faintly smeared with blood. Extensive bloodstains were discovered on two handkerchiefs. On one of the handkerchiefs the blood, which was human in character, belonged to group "0" and was mixed with seminal staining. Nothing was found upon an examination of a pair of gloves, a scarf, an army cap and a carbine cartridge. Extensive bloodstaining belonging to group "0" and mixed with seminal fluid, was discovered in the region of the fork of a pair of caniknickers, and group "0" bloodstains were present on the inner front surface of a lady's under-vest. A suspender-belt was also bloodstained on the front lower end. Mr. Davidson discovered bloodstains near the foot of a' torn-pair of lady's- stockings. An examination of two envelopes containing scrapings purporting to be from the nails of the left and right hand of accused, showed evidence of the presence of blood on both hands. The defense stating- that there was no objection to the admission in evidence of these exhibits provided that their connection with the case was sub-* sequently established, they were admitted in eviderice,- subject to such condition, as follows:	over^(Pr-os.Ex.5), trqusers (Pros.Ex.6), "shirt '
(Pros.Ex.7), under-pants (Pros.Ex.8), "under-shirt (Pros.Ex.9), one hand-
(214)
CONFIDENTIAL
kerchi'ef ‘(Fros.Ex.10), gloves (Pro"s.Ex.ll), .30 caliber Carbine cartridge (Pros.Ex.12), camiknickers (Pros.Exf.13), lady’s under-vest (Pr03.Ex.i4), suspender-belt (Pros.Ex.15), lady's stockings (Pros".Ex.l6), two envelopes containing scrapings (Pros.Ex.17;, scarf (Pros.Ex.13) and army cap (Pros. Ex.19) (R40-46).
Mr. Davidson further testified that there are four blood groups,
0, A, B and AB. He did hot examine all blood spots on the articles but did examine at least one bloodstain on each garment. The blood type of the stains examined was "0" in every instance. The bloodstains on the female clothing was not menstrual (R46-47).
At 4*00 p.m. 30 September, Major Ferris U. Foster, Chemical Warfare Service, SBS saw accused, told him that he had been appointed investigating officer and informed him as to the nature of the charges (R139-140,15l). Major Foster read Article of War 24 to accused and asked if he understood it. When he replied that he did not, the major "went to some length to explain to him exactly what it meant:* that if he did not wish to answer any question or make any statement, say anything about any question that I might ask him if it was in his estimation against him - -and I used that term because I thought that he might best understand it -he did not have to answer”. 'Accused signified that he understood the provision^ of Article of War 24 (R140,147). At that time Major Foster, who had 'been appointed investigating officer at 5*00 p.m., -29 September had not interviewed the British constabulary. As Miss Fawden was too ill to undergo an extensive examination, he had visited her at the hospital and asked her to identify her signature on a statement she had made on * the previous day to another officer. He read this statement to accused together with two other statements, one from a "Commanding Officer"- and one from Wheeler. ' The three statements comprised the only testimony available at the time. Accused wa3 also given the name of one witness appearing on the charge sheet, and was informed that Miss Fawden's illness was the reason why she was-not'examined in his presence. He was also told that he could question the persons who had made the other two statements, that he had the right to cross-examine witnesses, and could preseAt anything he desired in his own behalf subject to the risk of it being used against him. Accused stated that he would accept the testimony as shown’to him (R143-144,151-152).
After accused was placed Under oath he answered several questions asked him by Major Foster. After reading over his"statement given in answer to these questions," accused deleted a good portion of the statement (R141,143-144,146) and requested that he be allowed to "write out a substituted statement telling "how it happened"; Accused wrote the second statement himself after being told by Major Foster that he did.not have* to make the statement unless he so desired (R140-141 > 143-144). The second statement written by accused was then typed by a Maj or Warner and compared word for word by Major Foster with the statement written by accused. The four typed copies were read over with accused by Major Foster after he was
-14'-
CONFIDENTIAL
(215)
CONFIDENTIAL
'	i	*
asked if he wanted to substitute it in lieu of the answered questions, and. accused then signed the original typed statement and at least one copy thereof* He was given his original handwritten second statement and it was burned* Accused asked that he be allowed to send a note to "the girl in the hospital" and wrote a few words at the end of one of the copies of his typed statement. Major Foster delivered this to Miss Fawden (B141-142,149-150). He identified the original <5f the four type-written copies of the statement signed by accused in his presence (R142), and also the note which was written by accused to Miss Fawden and delivered to her (R149-150)." The statement and note were admitted in evidence over the objection of the defense (R144>148,150; Pros.Exs. AA, BB).
The statement of Accused admitted in evidence was as follows:.
"Statement of lee Andrew Davis
On Arsday 28 Sept 1943 I bee A Davis eat supper and got my rifle and went thruogh the forrest to town and-when'I got to town I went to several pubs and bought beer, wine and scotch. Me and some soldiers and I drink some beer with some asprins in it, and then I left to come home when I got up the street I picked up my rifle where I left it and went up the street and I caught up with 2 girls and I spoke to them and ask them where they going and the told me and I told them to wait and go over in the forest and they did not and I told them I'was going to shoot and I thought I had the gun in the air and I pulled the trigger two or three times and one girl fell and the other ran but I didn't know I had shot her’because I was pretty intoxicated with beer and asprens and scotch and I didn't think she was shot either did the other girl because she said the girl might’turn it in,'
I didn't have an intention of shoting her because I didn't intend to carry the rifle all the way in town, and the other ' girl and I went ovpr in the woods. I know I have committed a crime and should be punished for it but I didn't mean to kill anyone, I wasn't in my right mind then and it was an’accident because I thought I had the gun in the air.
All I ask of you all will you spare my life. I am sorry I did what I did but
- 15 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(216)
CONFIDENTIAL
life
I know It won't bring back the girls/and I am sorry and I want all'the Christians to pray for me.
/s/ Lee Andrew Davis .
The above statement was typed in its exact spelling from penciled, notes written by and at the suggestion of Lee Andre* Davis.
The statement was typed in'four (A.) copies, one of which was given to Davis on his request to.be allowed to send a note to the girl:ini the hospital. He wrote'the note on the. bottom.of the fourth copy, signed it, and gave it to me for delivery.
He then signed.the other three copies, one of which was given to Major King, CMP.
. /s/ Ferris D. Foster FERRIS U. FOSTER ■ Major, CWS
Investigating Officer." - (Ex. AA).
The following note was delivered to Mis3 Fawden by Major Foster on behalf of accused*
"To the girl in.Hospital
.'I am sorry fob what happen! the other night and I want your forgiveness and will •	you pray for me like you- said.
/s/ Lee Andrew Davis "	(Ex. BB).
The defense entered a "plea of>abatement to any further proceeding in the matter" on the ground that "the investigation required under the 70th Article of War and the provisions of 35a of the Manual have not been complied with" (R152)• The plea was overruled. The summary of evidence and the report of investigation made by Major Foster was identified by that officer and admitted in evidence with the consent of the defense "not as evidence in the case itself" but solely" with resp'ect to the plea in' abatement (R153, Ex'. CC).
-4. The defense introduced evidence that the laundry for the members of the company was sent to a cbntract launderer in Chippenham. Each man would turn in his bundle, marked faith his name, to the supplv . sergeant who would check the items and send them to the laundry (R189). Individuals were frequently fbund in the possession of laundry and other issue material belonging to'another person. Prior to departure from the United States each member of the organization marked both his clothing and equipment with the first initial of his last name and the last four digits of his serial number (R190). If accused's serial number was 18023362 the identification on.his clothing would be D3362 (R19l).
CONFIDENTIAL
(217)
When clothing was issued information as to the date, size and amount of the clothing concerned was entered in the company records (R195)• According to these records the clothing issued accused included among other articles two pairs of wool "O.D" trousers, the waist being 33 and the length of the leg 31. He was never issued wool “O.D” trousers with a 31 waist and a 33 leg (R19l). It was common practice for members of the organization to have clothing altered but the measurements in the company records would remain unchanged (R192-193,199). Trousers similar in style to Pros.Ex.6 had been issued (R196-197). The trousers admitted in evidence as Pros.Ex.6 were measured in court and the waist was found to be 32 and the "inseam" about 29 (R198-199). Accused, at his own request put on the trousers and it was recorded that they were "*** close fitting when properly fastened, and a little short in the leg" (R204-) •
Accused, after being warned of his rights (R200), made an unsworn statement in substance as follows:
After supper on the evening of 28 September he had a nose bleed, stopped it and went to his hut where he remained until 7:30- 7:A5. He then went to the NAAFI, remained about one hour and fifteen or twenty minutes, returned to liis hut and took a shower. He went back to the NAAFI and then returned to his hut about 10 o'clock "or a little after" where, he lay down with his "fatigues on. As he had been drinking beer that evening he had to get up during the night to go to the latrine. On the way to the latrine he met some soldiers who told him to get his rifle and "O.D" cap and go to the mess hall. He found his "O.D" cap in his barracks bag, but his rifle was missing. At the mess hall when Captain Logan called Wheeler's name and checked the number of the rifle in his possession, accused told the captain that the rifle belonged to him (R201-202).
" After he got through checking the rifle he said that all men in hut 1A to remain in the mess hall. _ AfterY/ard they called me in and questioned"me. A fellow told me, he said 'I am from the Police Department. He held up a cap and asked me did I know"it. I told him JNo' and he said 'take it and look at it.' I took the cap and looked at it and I see the number in1 it and I said.'It's Wheeler's.' He asked me How do you know it's Wheeler's' I ' said 'It's the- one that he let me wear on Monday' which was the 20th or 21st - the day . I had a day off; Then he asked me, this police officer asked me, he said, 'Whose gloves did you have in your pocket?' I told him they were mine, and he asked me 'Where did you get them?' I said 'A boy found them and gave them to me.' I thought he was talking about the gloves that I had in the
- 17 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
i
pocket with the number T004-7, which some boy in the Company lost, but I don't'know who he was. Then he showed me the gloves he was talking about and they were white gloves, and I told him I didn't know.
Afterwards they took off a pair“of shorts and an undershirt of mine and he asked me * no he took them - no he. asked me first 'whose cap did you wear tonight?'
I told him I wore Philip Hall's and he held up an O.D. capand said 'Like this?' and'I told him 'No, a wool-knit cap.' 'Then he took off the undershirt and pair'of shorts off of my body. The shorts were marked with one of my serial numbers, the undershirt was not marked though the shorts was marked like some of my clothing. I'd lost some of my clothing. I'd said something to the supply sergeant about it, but he said we would probably have field clothing and wouldn't get it for six months, so it was about 5 a.m. then, at least they were making reveille. I lett to come to Tid-worth Garrison stockade.- I got there about 7 a.m. in the morning and ?;ent to work and about 2 p.m.•the sergeant at Tidworth came down and got me and sent me to-’ Shepton Mallet, I got there about A.30'or 5 p.m.
I taken a shower and eat and went into my cell. Then about ten o'clock the sergeant that was on duty at Shepton Mallet gave me some blankets so I could go to sleep. I was then woke up approximately twelve o'clock on the night of the 29th and questioned until about A.30 or 5 a.m. on the morning of the 30th. by Major king.
I then went back into my cell and stayed until approximately 9 a.m. At’ nine o'clock we were ready to go to Tot House. We arrived here a little after ten or eleven o'clock. I was questioned by Major King and Major Foster until noon, I went and eat and come back at about 12.30 or 1 O'clock. Major King and Major Foster taken me out some * place to show them something. Anyway I couldn't show them what they wanted to see, so they brought me back about two o'clock on the 30th - that was the day of the 30th.
Then they questioned me here approximately till 2.30 or close 3 o'clock. Then Major
- 18 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(219)
Foster taken me In a room and he read something to me and asked me did 1 understand.
I told him 1No' and he tried to explain it to me, and asked me did I understand' it then, 1 and I said 'I guess, so1 and then he questioned me and asked me-questions and I guess he didn't like the statement I told him, so he asked me he said 'Davis, I am going to read three statements to you'.	■
He read the statements and he said, 'This statement here I know is true, because the lady that made it she is not the type to' lie,• or 'She don't have no right to lie' or words to that effect, and then after he got through reading he asked me did I want to cross-examine the witness. I told him I did want to cross-examine the person, whoever made that statement, and he said she was a lady and she was sick in the hospital and I could not see her, and about that time Major King came into the room.
Major Foster said 'This is your third and last chance to make a statement' and Major King said 'You are not fooling us, you are only fooling yourself'. I asked Major King and said 'What, do you want me to do, make a- statement like ‘the one you just read out to me?' and Major Foster said 'Hof I want you to make a statement of your own.'
And I sat'there a few moment and asked Major King - let's see - Major Foster asked him to let me see ]that statement', then I could -write one. He let me have the statement and I copied off the statement and added some to it; after that, Major told me he was my friend, to write-it. After I was about through writing I tore it up because it wasn't so, and Major King said, 'All, right, that's confidential, and it can be used against you or for you' or something like that. He said 'We hold the rifle and we can tell who it is by the rifle* and after that he said 'Why don't you write the girl in the hospital a letter and tell her you are sorry' and he . told me to write-it and I did,,and he said 'Sign it, and these papers and Major Foster and I will go take it to her.'
, Then after I signed it I tore up some part of it - the one that I had wrote, and throwed them in the fire, and he asked me
- 19 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(220)
CONFIDENTIAL
’Now do you want to give this to me’ and I told him ’No, I did not’ and then he >
^sked me'did I want him to give the statement to the girl. I told him ’If he wanted to’.' The reason I. made the statement was because Major King told me that he was my friend, and the statement could not be used against me nor for me, and he had the rifle and the,rifle could tell who it'was, and I know that I had not had no rifle." {R202-203).	.	,
’ * *	.	•	I
5.	(a) Pros.Exs. 5-19’were admitted in evidence with the consent of
the defense subject to the condition that their connection with the case . be subsequently established. The exhibits were finally admitted in evidence (R188). The Board of Review is of the opinion that with the possible exception of the lady's scarf (ProstEx.l8), their admission was proper and that their-connection with the case was sufficiently established. The Board is also of the opinion that the prosecution had established a proper foundation for the admission of the photographs A,''9,0 and D which were admitted in evidence qver the objection of the defense (R24) (MCM.,
1928, par.llSb, p.122). Similarly the objection by the defense to the reading by a witness of the first initial of accused's last name and the last four letters of his serial number on,the shirt and overcoat, was properly not sustained -(R173>175) . , These exhibits had been admitted in evidence subject to their connection with the case and the fact that accused's identification marks were on the shirt ;and overcoat were part of the proof establishing such a connection. ‘
(b) The defense objected to the testimony of Miss Bell that at 12:25 a.m., 29 September Miss Fawden was very distressed and hysterical when she appeared at the-hospital (R95). The defense also objected to the statements by Miss Fawden to Constable Boyer that she had. been raped twice by a colored soldier, that he had "fired two shots at June and marched me off to some haystacks in the forest with a rifle pointing in my ribs," and that it would be tei^ible if she had a black baby. , The court admitted the testimony on the theory of res geatae (R103-10A,106-107). It was about 8:10 p.m. when the witness Browning heard\two shots and ran to the-place where Miss Lay was found. It was "just after eight o'dock" when the lorry driver Beasley noticed her body lying in the road. About 12:10 a.m. Miss Fawden was found by Boyer. There was no definite evidence as to what time the offense of rape was committed during the interval of four hours, and accordingly.it was difficult to determine whether Miss Fawden's remarks to Boyer were too far removed in point of time from the commission of that offense to constitute part of the res gestae. . However, it is not necessary to base the admissibility of Miss Bell’s and certain portions of Boyer's testimony on the theory, of res gestae. In cases 'involving the offense of rape the weight of authority is that one to whom a complaint i3
: - 20 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(221)
made may testify as to the making of the complaint by the prosecutrix, her physical condition and appearance, and the state of her clothing at the time. Testimony by the witness concerning.the details of the outrage as stated by the prosecutrix are, however, inadmissible (Coppage v. State, 137 Pac.2d (Okla.) 797} CL3 ETO 709, Lakes).
In view of the foregoing, Miss Bell’s testimony as to the victim’s distressed and hysterical condition, when she came to the hospital and Boyer’s testimony that she informed him that she had been raped twice by a colored soldier were admissible'in evidence." The statement that it would Be terrible if she had a black baby was not only corroborative of her statement that she had been raped twice by a colored soldier, but ■ also partly explained and was'indicative of her greatly distressed physical condition. Her statements that, after firing two shots at Miss Lay, he marched her off to some haystacks in the forest with a rifle pointing in her ribs were details of the incident and were improperly admitted in evidence. However, Miss Fawden herself testified without objection by the defense that after Miss Lay was shot, accused threatened on several occasions to shoot the witness and took her into- some haystacks. Such testimony was clearly admissible. Because of this and other competent evidence establishing accused's guilt of the offense of rape, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the improper admission of this statement did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused (CM ETO 709, Lakas: CM ETO 611, Porter). For the foregoing reasons, the court also properly overruled the objection by the d dfense concerning the testimony of the witness Smith to the effect that when found Miss"Fawden was exlaim-ing "My God, ray God, where am I *** I have been raped" (R109-111).
(c)	The defense also objected to the admission in evidence' of accused’s statement to Major Foster, as well as his note to Miss Fawden, delivered to her by the major at his request, and entered a "plea in abatement to any further proceedings in the matter" on the ground that "the investigation required under the 70th Article of War and the provisions of 35a of the Manual have not been complied with", (R144,14-8,152).
The evidence shows conclusively that accused was thoroughly warned as to his rights by Major'Foster,"informed as to the nature of the testimony then available, was definitely told that any statement he made might be used against him, and that he was not compelled to make any statement or to answer any questions if he believed that it might be "against him".
The provisions of Article of War 2U were carefully explained to him and he said that he understood its provisions. He wrote the statement introduced in evidence (Ex. AA) after he requested that he be allowed to tell "how it happened" and after being told that he did not have to make the statement. He'signed the statement voluntarily and without any coercion. The note (Ex. BB) which was delivered to Miss Fawden was written by accused of his own volition without suggestion by others, and contained a clear implication of his guilt. Both the statement and the note were properly admitted in evidence. The "plea'in'abatement" was a misnomer as such a plea relates to an objection to a charge or specifica-
- 21 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(222)
tion in matters of form only (MCM., 1928, par.66, pp.51-52). The claim by the defense that the investigation was hot in conformance with Article of War 70 and the provisions of paragraph 35a of the Manual was based upon the*contention that the investigation was in the nature of "an inquisition" (R144)• : On the contrary, as shown by the evidence the investigation was fair and impartial and all rights of accused were fully protected. In support of‘its'argument,the defense cited a case in which the record disclosed that no investigation had been made prior to trial.
It was held therein that the provisions of Article of War 70 with respect to an investigation of the charges were mandatory and that there must’be a substantial compliance therewith before charges could be legally referred for trial. It was further held that as a consequence the proceedings were void ab initio (Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, sec.428(1), p.292; CM 161728,
1924). However, the cited case is no longer applicable as it has since been held that the requirements of Article of War 70 with respect'to the investigation of charges before trial "are not jurisdictional" (CM 229477, Floyd. 30 January 1943).
; (d) The' court properly overruled the objection by the defense to Lieutenant Schneider's testimony that accused "acted extremely nervous and agitated" when he claimed his rifle at the company inspection (R75-76).
Such testimony was plainly admissible as it was the result of ordinary visual observation and did not require expert knowledge. (20 Am.Jur. Evidence, sec.823, p.692j Underhill's Criminal Evidence- 4th Ed.- sec.231, p.432j CM ET0 804, Ogletree et al).
(e)	The president of the court at the opening of the trial included, in his instructions to the;press that "*** there must be no reference to color in your descriptions or any articles of the trial in this court"
(R3). Whether or not-the president was authorized to give this instruction to the press, it certainly was not'prejudicial to accused.
(f)	The reviews of the Staff Judge Advocate, SBS, ET0USA and of the Assistant Theater Judge Advocate, ET0USA contain discussions of several minor irregularities appearing in the record of trial and further comment thereon is deemed unnecessary.■
6. Rape is the unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman by force and without her consent (MCM., 1928, par.148b, p.165).- Although at the trial Miss Fawden was not asked if she could, identify her assailant, the evidence is clear and convincing that accused was the man involved and that he committed the offense alleged. His note toiMiss Fawden containing his apology for "what happend the other night" clearly implicates accused. He admitted'in his statement to Major Foster that he went into the woods with the "other girl" after one of the two girls was shot. He also admitted to Superintendent Gibson that he owned the trousers in the pocket of which the victim's gloves marked "F.A" and his own bloodstained handkerchief were found. Wheeler's cap, which accused had borrowed the previous evening but had not returned, was found in the immediate vicinity of the place
- 22 -
confidential
t
CONFIDENTIAL
where the girl's mackintosh and scarf were discovered. Both his outer and inner clothing were bloodstained and in part stained with seminal fluid, and Miss Fawden's underclothing was also stained with blood and bore evidence of seminal fluid. The scrapings from accused's nails showed evidence that blood was present on each of his hands. His blood and that of Mis3 Fawden both belonged to group "0", but an examination during the early morning hours of 29 September disclosed that accused had no injuries or abrasions on his body which would have caused any bleeding.
The testimony of Mss Fawden that an American colored soldier had carnal knowledge of her twice, was corroborated by the testimony of Constable Boyer who found her just after midnight in a distressed and hysterical condition. She told him that she had been raped twice by a colored soldier. Her testimony wa3 further corroborated by that of Dr. Maupice who found upon examination about 20 minutes later that there was considerable dried blood and bruising about her genitals, and that her hymen had been recently torn and lacerated. In his opinion the injuries had been caused by the introduction of a male "organ" and penetration had occurred.
The testimony of Miss Fawden as to the details of the actual commission of the offense itself was limited to the statement that she "had no option but to give in to him", that he "forced" her again, and-that by "forced" she meant' that he had carnal knowledge of her. However, there could be no doubt that she meant that accused had actually raped her and the corroborating evidence clearly demonstrates this fact. Her testimony that she had to "give in" to her .assailant because the man had threatened to shoot her, was. corroborated in part by the admission contained in accused's statement to Major Foster that he had a rifle in his possession when he met the two girls. The circumstances to which Miss Fawden testified fully justify the inference that she did not in fact consent, that accused had carnal knowledge of her by force, and that any lack of or cessation of resistance' was attributable to her fear of great bodily injury or death. Such being the facts rape was committed (Wharton's Criminal law, 12th Ed., sec.701, pp.9,42,944; CM 227909, Scarborough).
I	II	I
There was evidence that on the first day of trial the girl's condition was still rather critical, that large doses of hypnotics were still being administered, that she was excitable and more than ordinarily emotional. Such testimony was admissible to corroborate the victim's testimony and to show the probability that a rape was committed (CM ETO 611, Porter: Underhill's Criminal Evidence, 4th Ed., sec.671, p.1262).
The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 2 of the Charge.
'7. Murder is legally defined as follows:
-23-
■rjUFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. ’Unlawful* means without legal justification or excuse ***." (MCH,, 1928, sec.148a, p.162).
The important element of murder, namely, "malice aforethought" has been analyzed as follows:
"The term malice, as ordinarily employed in .	criminal	law, is a strictly legal term,
meaning, not personal spite or hostility ' but simply the wrongful intent essential to the commission of crime. When used, however, in connection with the word ’aforethought’ or ’prepense’, in defining the particular crime of murder, it signifies .the same evil intent, as the result of a determined purpose, premeditation, deliberation or brooding and therefore as indicating, in the view of the law, a malignant or depraved nature, or, as the early writer, Foster, has expressed it,
"a heart regardless of social duty, and fatally bent on mischief'. The deliberate • purpose need not have been long entertained; it is sufficient if it exist at the moment of the act. Malice aforethought is either 'express' or .'implied'; express where the intent, - as manifested by *** threats, the absence of any or of sufficient provocation, etc.- is to take the life of the particular person killed, or, since a specific purpose to kill is not J essential to constitute murder, to inflict on him some excessive bodily injury which mav naturally result in death:	implied.
where the intent is to commit a felonious or unlawful act but not to kill or injure the particular person ***; ***." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, 2nd Ed.. Reprint, pp.672-673) (Underscoring supplied).
There is no doubt that accused was the man who shot Miss Lay.
Miss Fawden testified that her assailant was the same person who shot Miss Lay. Accused wrote a note of.apology to Miss Fawden for what had occurred. In his statement to Major Foster, he admitted that when he told the two girls to go over in hhe forest and they failed to do so, he told them he was going to shoot, that he thought he had the gun "in the air", that he pulled the trigger two or three times and "one girl fell" while the other ran.
- 24 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(225)
The evidence shows that the colored American soldier first accosted the girls, asked where they ware going, and upon being told they were going to the hospital asked "How far is that?" He then dropped behind them. Suddenly Miss Fawden heard a voice say "Stand still, or I'll shoot". Upon turning around the girls saw a colored American soldier levelling a rifle at them. He told them to get into the bushes on the other side of V the road. The girls tried "to stall him" and said "it was much better / further down the road". They walked backwards, facing the soldier who still pointed the rifle at them. ’ Miss Lay suddenly told Miss Fawden to run. Both girls ran. Mss Fawden being in front. She heard shots, turned around and saw Mss Lay still running. She heard more shots, turned around again and saw Miss Lay who screamed, threw up her arms and roll over in the road. Mss Fawden continued to run, heard more shots, "had the impression of bullets whistling past" her, and stopped because she thought "the next one would go in my back". The soldier then caught up with her and dragged her through some barbed wire.
The facts thus disclosed form a substantial basis for the court's findings that accused was guilty of murder, and that he killed Miss Lay with malice aforethought "manifested by threats, the absence of any or of sufficient provocation". The testimony of Mss Fawden that he told them to get into the bushes and threatened 'to shoot them is corroborated by the statement made to Major Foster by accused himself.~ His actions show a cold, deliberate purpose either to kill Mss Lay or to at least inflict on her "some excessive bodily injury which may naturally result in death".
(CM ETO 739, Maxwell).
Accused, in his statement to Major Foster asserted that he did not know that he had shot the girl because he was "*** pretty intoxicated with beer and asprens and scotch ***", The only other evidence with respect to intoxication was the testimony of Lieutenant Schneider that accused was sober at the company inspection about 1:30 a.m. 29 September. Accused also in his statement asserted that the shooting of Mss Lay was accidental as he thought he had the gun "in the air". The issues of intoxication and accidental death were questions of fact for the exclusive determination of the court.
The evidence shows that Miss Lay was killed by a bullet fired from Wheeler's rifle and that his cap was found-in the immediate vicinity of the killing and near where Mss Fawden's scarf and mackintosh were discovered. However, any question as to Wheeler's implication in the commission of the offenses alleged- was obviated by the testimony of Wheeler, corroborated by that of other witnesses, which clearly accounted for his movements on the evening in question.	-	•
In the opinion of the Board of Review, the offense ’of murder alleged in Specification 1 of the Charge was proved beyond all, reasonable doubt. *
- 25 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(226)
8.	The charge sheet shows that accused was 20 years 8 months of age at the time, of the commission of the offense. .. lie enlisted March 25, 1941 for a period of. three years* • He had no pjdor service*
. J
. 9* The court* was legally constituted an4 had jurisdiction of the person and offenses; No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. : • The Board of Review' is of the opinion-that the record of :trial, is legally sufficient: to support the findings' of • guilty and; the sentence* - The penalty for murder or rape* is death; or. life imprisonment: as the court-martial, may :direct.<(AW;92)..
The sentence that accused ^be .hanged by1 the neck, until dead ^is. legal (CM • ETO 438 - Smith:-CM ETO 255 - Co^j MCM., 1928, par*103a, p.93).
< - 26
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
/
(227)
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. " 3 DEC 1943 TOs Commanding General, ETOUSA, U.S. Army, APO 887,
1.	In the case of Private LEE A. DAVIS (18023362), Company "C", 248th Quartermaster Battalion (Service), attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved,
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the record of trial, the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 969, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 969),
3.	Should the sentence as imposed by the court be carried into execution.it is requested that a full copy of the proceedings be furnished this office in order that its files may be complete.
t zf C. licNEIL, ^ Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
1 Incis
Record of Trial.
(Sentence ordered executed. GClfiD 27, ETO, A Dec 1943)

#(229)
