#(79)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater, of. Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
2 3 JUL 1943
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUFPIE, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.I.I., convened at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, 22 April 194-3. Sentence:	Dishonorable	discharge,
total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years.
Disciplinary Training Center No. 1, Shepton Nallet, Somerset, England.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the 58th Article of ‘War.
Specification 1:	In	that	Frivate	Philip	J.	Astrella,
Company D, Casual Replacement Group (Prov.), did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire,
England, on or about 16 January 1943 desert the service of the United States by absenting himself without proper leave from Ms organization, with intent to avoid hazardous duty, to wit: Transfer to an overseas station, and did remain in desertion until he surrendered at Newport, Wales on or about 26 February 1943.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
ETO 527.
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private PHILIP J. ASTRELLA	)
(12009327), Company "D", Casual	)
Replacement Group, (Provisional).	)
5
)
)
- 1 -
rii'U'i'isi v i'u
COMFlINTO.
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due ana to be confined at hard labor for five years. The revievdng authority approved only so much of the findings of guilty as involves a finding of guilty of absence without leave from 16 January 194-3 to 26 February 194-3 in violation of Article of War 61, approved the sentence but suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge pending (until) the soldier's release from confinement and designated Disciplinary Training Center No.l, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, as the place of confinement.
The proceeaings were published in General Court-Martial Orders No. 23, Headquarters, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOTJSA, U. S. Army,
5	June 194-3.
3.	The following purported extract copy of the morning report of accused's organization was admitted in eyidence:
EXTRACT COPY FROM MORNING REPORT GF Oo "D" Cas Repl Gp (Prov.) 2211-B
(Company, Troup, Battery or Det.) (Regiment or other Unit) Pvt. Astrella, Phillip J. ASN 12009327 Fr duty to AWOL as of 1500 hrs 16 Jan 19A3.
(Complete Designation of Command) (Station) (Date)
I,	.certify that I am the Personnel Officer
(Name, Grade and Arm of service)
of _____________ and official custodian of the morning
(Complete Designation of Command) reports of said Company and that the foregoing is a true copy (including any signature or initials appearing thereon) of that part of the morning report of said command submitted
at APO ___for the dates indicated in said copy which relates
(Station)
to
Phillip J. Astrella 12009327 Pvt Cas R&pl Gp (Prov)
Full Name,	ASN	Grade	and	Organization
referred to in extract copy.
K. M. Nicholson_____
K. K. NICHOLSON Captain. F.A.
KD FROM NO. II
2/2/A3	Pros	Ex	1
FH
The defense counsel stated "There is no objection" to the admission in evidence of the document (R.6, Pros.Ex.l).
It will be thus seen that the extract copy of the morning report (Pros.Ex.l) was executed by Captain K. M. Nicholson, Field Artillery, as
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
the personnel officer and official custodian of the morning reports "of said company". In CM 227831 (194-2), Gregory, the only proof of absence without leave consisted of an extract copy of the morning report of accused’s organization, authenticated by a certificate signed by the personnel adjutant of a Separate Coast Artillery Battalion which recited that the signer was custodian of the morning report concerned. In CM 218201, Witowski. the extract copy was certified by the Regimental Personnel Adjutant who stated therein he was official custodian of the morning report involved. The Board of Review in both cases held the extracts of the morning reports inadmissible because the officers certifying them were not their official custodians. The rule of these cases is applicable in the instant case. The company commander was the official custodian of the morning reports (AR 345-5, par.l3a(l), April-15, 1942); not the personnel adjutant. Captain Nicholson’s certification as company personnel officer is therefore not. such an authentication as makes the extract copy admissible in evidence, notwithstanding his statement in his certificate that he is official custodian. The vice is inherent in the document. It is obviously hearsay evidence. The fact that defense counsel stated that he did not object to its admission does not make it legal evidence. It should not have been admitted in evidence and it will not be considered by the Board of Review. Such a document could be admitted by stipulation of the parties or by express consent of the defense after an explanation of his right to object (M.C.M., 1928, par.126c, p.137)
4.	To establish the offense of which accused stands convicted, it was necessary to prove by direct or circumstantial evidence that, -
(1)	Accused absented himself from ***** his ***** station for a certain period as alleged, and
(2)	that such absence was without authority from anyone cdmpetent to give him leave.
(M.C.M., 1928, par.132, p.146).
All of the elements of the offense may be proved by circumstantial evidence (16 C.J., sec.1570, p.766), but mere conjectures or suspicions do not warrant conviction (16 C.J., sec,1590, p.779 and cases therein cited).
No evidence was presented“by the defense. Prosecution’s undisput ed evidence shows:
That accused was a member of a unit first formed and known as Casual Replacement Group (Provisional) (R.10), but whose designation was about 10 January 1943 (R.ll) changed to 2211-B. From the 10th till the 19 January 1943 (R.8) this unit had a priority of supply (R.10) under which more and other than normal supplies and equipment (R.9) were received by the members thereof. On 14 January 1943, the Commanding Officer, 10th Replacement Depot, notified the Commanding Officer, Task Force 2211-B, that Task Force 2211-B had been alerted by higher authority and directed that he at once publish this information to his command. On 20 January 1943 Task Force 2211-B departed from its station (Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England) for an unknown destination outside the United Kingdom (R.7). On or about 2 March 1943 Staff Sergeant Joseph B.
- 3 -
(82)
CONFIDMAl
Fontane and another sergeant were detailed as military police to go to Cardiff (’.Yales) with orders to take into custody three prisoners of whom accused was one. They were then held by the 707th Military Police Company. Fontane and fellow soldier executed their orders. Accused was brought back and confined. He was in proper uniform, when picked up by Fontane.
He stated to Fontane that he surrendered himself at Newport (R.6), and that he belonged to 2211-B (R.7). Newport is more than 150 miles distant from Lichfield and about twelve miles from Cardiff.
5.	It is reasonable to assume that accused was with his unit subsequent to 10 January 1943 for he was familiar with the new unit designation and would thus be aware of the significance of the unusual issue of clothing and equipment to his unit. It may also properly be assumed that very restricted or no leaves of absence would be granted members of this unit after 10 January, and certainly not after 14 January 1943 when their Commanding Officer was notified that Task Force 2211-B was alerted by higher authority. Task Force 2211-B departed from its station (Whittington Barracks, Lichfield) enroute outside of the United Kingdom 20 January 1943, 41 days before accused was returned in the custody of the military police to his former station. Iiis statement that he "surrendered" indicates in soldiers' parlance, a return to military control from an unauthorized status, subjecting him to apprehension. ‘Moreover the military police would not have been sent a distance of 150 miles to secure and keep him in custody if he had not been subject to apprehension. He was placed in confinement on return to his post. The limitations prescribed by paragraph 104(c) 1928 Manual for Courts-LIartial, United States Army, upon punishments fcr absence without leave in violation of Article of War 61 were suspended by Executive Order No. 9267, which became effective 1 December 1942. It removed the necessity of proving the duration of an unauthorized absence or its definite beginning or ending.
IThen the record of trial is considered as a whole it is obvious that the issue which was tried involved accused's guilt of the offense of desertion. His guilt of the lesser included offense of absence without was not actually contested. The examination of Greengarde, the supply Sergeant of the Task Force, was directed entirely to the activities of the unit prior to its departure and the issuance of its equipment and supplies - evidence which was relevant and material to the issue of desertion but of no relevancy or consequence on the issue of absence without leave. The motion of defense counsel was "for a finding of not guilty of the charge, the 58th Article of War on the grounds that there has been insufficient evidence to prove knowledge on the part of the accus ed here," (R.16). The response of the trial judge advocate directed the court's attention to the fact that the unit's activity was "similar to that of all alerted units" and that accused participated in such activity and "therefore‘had some knowledge of his unit being alerted" (R.16). Upon overruling of the motion defense counsel stated: "The defendant has been advised of his rights and he vdshes to remain silent. At this time I would like to renew my motion of a finding of not guilty of the 58th Article of "Jar" • The
- 4 -
"■nnrMT*!,!
(83)
CONFIDENTIAL
motion was again overruled. There is not therefore even an implication that the defense was denying accused’s guilt of absence without leave although accused had pleaded generally "not guilty" of the offense of desertion. Its sole effort was to defeat the charge of desertion.
The burden rested upon the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt the ultimate fact that accused was absent from his command and that such absence was without proper permission. The prosecution effected proof of such ultimate fact by establishing certain probative facts - facts which are uncontroverted. There was thereby presented a set of circumstances from which the court might infer, the ultimate facts constituting the gravamen of the offense. Proof of the commission of a crime by an accused may be made by circumstantial evidences
"Where evidence is of sufficient probative force, a crime may be established by circumstantial evidence, provided that there is positive proof of the facts from which the inference of guilt is to be drawn and that that inference is the only one which can reasonably be drawn from those facts." (People v. Razezicz, 99 N.E. 557,
564.).
"When a series of facts, distinctly and unequivocally proved, manifestly tends to one conclusion, and another fact is proposed in contradiction to that conclusion, the mere inability to account for such opposite fact is not sufficient to destroy the inference deduced from the others, but the positive inconsistency should be positively shown." (Burrell on Circumstantial Evidence, p.35).
"Yfhere there is substantial evidence to establish all the elements of the offense charged, verdict for the accused cannot be directed on the theory that the evidence is insufficient to convince the jury of the accused’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt." (Hays v. United States, 231 Fed. 106).
When all of the circumstances, proved beyond a reasonable doubt in the instant case, are balanced against each other and are given their legitimate probative weight it is difficult, if hot impossible, to draw any inference other than the fact that accused was absent from his command without leave. To infer that accused was lawfully absent from his command for at least five weeks in time of war when his command was in a foreign country and had during his absence departed therefrom, taxes credulity beyond its utmost limit. Common sense and common experience dictates an opposite conclusion.
5 -
’’'M* nnruTi *«
ip.cv
11A presumption upon a matter of fact, when it is not merely a disguise for some other principle means that common experience shows the fact to be so generally true that courts may notice the truth." (Greer v. United States, 245 U.S. 559,
62 L. Edi 469).
In any event the circumstances proved by the prosecution in its case in chief are certainly sufficient to establish prima facie guilt of accused. It is, of course, axiomatic that the burden of proof never shifts in a criminal case (Lilienthal v. United States, 97 U.S. 237,
24 L. Ed. 901).
"But when a prima facie case has been made out, as conviction follows unless it be rebutted, the necessity of adducing evidence then devolves on the accused." (Agnew v. United States, 165 U.S.
36, 41 L. Ed. 624).
there is a manifest distinction between the burden of proof and the burden of adducing evidence. also known as the burden of explanation, and, while the burden of proof never shifts, the burden of adducing evidence may shift from side to side according to the testimony. Thus, while the burden of evidence cannot be placed on accused until proof of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt has been prima facie made by the prosecution, it will devolve on accused after a orima facie case has been made out." (22 Corpus Juris .Secundum, sec,573, p.887).(Underscoring supplied).
The accused in the face of the evidence produced against him elected to remain silent. Such was his right beyond all peradventure, and his failure to take the stand cannot be commented upon (M.C.M., 1928, par.77, p.62).	However, the burden of adducing evidence excusatory of
his prolonged absence - the "burden of explanation" - was on him and his right to remain silent did not relieve him of such burde'n of going forward with the proof (16 C.J., par.998, p.53l). He offered no explanation of his conduct. The inferences arising from the proof presented by the prosecution therefore stand unrebutted and unexplained. The facts supporting such inferences cannot be controverted. The inferences from such facts are legitimate and logical and are in harmony with common sense and experience. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the facts proved and the inferences arising therefrom are legally sufficient proof of accused’s guilt of being absent without leave at the time and place alleged in the specification.
Accused's motion for a finding of not guilty of violation of AW 58 was properly denied (R.16). Sufficient evidence had then been
- 6 -
(85)
presented by the prosecution to warrant a finding of guilty of absence without leave, a lesser included offense. Under such circumstances the denial of the motion was not only proper, but also required (CLI ETO 506, Bryson).
7.	Accused is 20 years of age. He enlisted 28 October 194-0 for the duration of the war plus six months.
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. Wo errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of absence without leave as approved by the reviewing authority, and the sentence.
- 7 -
(86)
CONFIDENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 527.	JUL	1943
UNITED STATES ) WESTERN BASE SECTION, • SERVICES
) OF SUPPIZ, EUROPEAN THEATER OF
V.	)	OPERATIONS.
Private PHILIP J. ASTRELLA.	)	Trial by G.C.M., convened at Lichfield,
(12009327), Company "D", Casual	)	Staffordshire, England,	22 April 1943.
Replacement Group, (Provisional).	)	Sentence:	Dishonorable	discharge,
) total forfeitures and confinement at ) hard labor for five years.
) Disciplinary Training Center No. 1,
) Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England.
DISSENTING OPINION by SARGENT, Judge Advocate.
1. I am unable to concur with the majority opinion of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as approved by"the reviewing authority, and the sentence.
The only pertinent evidence with respect to the offense of absence without leave consists of (a) - the entry contained in the morning report to the effect that accused went absent without leave 16 January 1943; (b) - the facts that his organizatipn, a task force, departed for an unknown destination outside the United Kingdom on 20 January 1943 and that accused was " picked up" by Sergeant Fontane at Cardiff (Wales) about 41 days later, being then a prisoner in the custody of the military police, and (c) - his•statement to the sergeant that he surrendered at Newport, and was in "2211-6".
When asked by the trial judge advocate if he knew how long the three prisoners were held by the military police, the witness Fontane replied "I couldn’t say for certain, sir, but I would say 2 or 3 days. They told me it was 2 or 3 days". The law member then stated "That is all hearsay" (Underscoring supplied). There is no further indication of any action by the court concerning the admissibility of this evidence, and no statement was made by defense counsel with reference thereto.
The evidence does not show whether the accused, one of the two other prisoners, or the military police, told Fontane that the men had been in the custody of the military police for two or three days.
- 1 -
r! ?• c ■ ■ 7'■’,*
(87)
CONFIDENTIAL
Even if the fact that accused had been in the custody of the military police at Cardiff for two or three days should be considered as properly established in evidence, there is no evidence as to the circumstances surrounding his surrender at Newport, and no evidence as to whether his surrender at Newport was prior or subsequent to 20 January 1943, the date of departure of his organization from the United Kingdom.
It is entirely possible that accused was with his organization on that date, and that he had surrendered at Newport prior to 20 January 1943. Moreover, if he did surrender at Newport after the departure of his organization, such a fact would not necessarily indicate that the surrender terminated a period of absence without leave. There are any number of valid and sufficient reasons why a soldier does not accompany his organization upon its transfer to another location.	Accused*s
"surrender" to either civil or military authority at Newport might equally have been because of the commission of an offense other than that of absence without leave, during a period when his absence from his organization was fully authorized.
In CM 227831 (1942), Gregory, the evidence of absence without leave consisted of entries contained in an extract copy of the morning reports of accused's organization. It was stipulated that accused surrendered in New York, New York about 12 July 1942 in uniform. The Board of Review in holding the record of trial legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence, stated that the only proof of absence without leave consisted of the morning report entries, and made no comment with reference to the stipulation concerning the surrender. (Bui. No.7, JAG., Vol.I, Dec 1942, par.395(17), p.359).
In view of the foregoing I am of the opinion that the statement by accused that he surrendered at Newport is of no.probative value. The mere fact that accused was in the custody of the military police at Cardiff about six weeks after the departure of his organization, similarly did not warrant the conclusion that he was then in custody as the result of having been absent without leave. It is equally justifiable to infer that accused did not accompany his organization for perfectly legitimate reasons and that he was in custody of the military police for the commission of other offenses.
"On a prosecution for absence without leave a sergeant testified that accused was not present when the company left on August 23, and that he had not seen the accused until the day of the trial on September 3. A corporal testified to the same effect. Accused stated on the witness stand that he v/as sleep in a barn when his company left. There is no evidence that the accused did not have permission to be absent. an essential element of the offense, and the finding of guilty should be disapproved. Ci.i 125261 (1919)." (Dig.Ops. JAG., 1912-1940, sec.419(2), p.282)). (Underscoring supplied).
- 2 -
MnnFNTiA!
(88)
c---ram
The statement by accused that he belonged to "2211-B" shows that he was aware that this was part of the designation of his organization. However, such knowledge by accused, considered either alone or in conjunction with the other evidence under consideration, did not establish the fact that he absented himself without leave because his organization was a task force and was about to depart from the United Kingdom.
it****. Circumstantial evidence is limited by, or rather should be tested by, the following rules, which, while they may be different]y phrased, are fundamental rules in all jurisdictions: (l) ******* (2) all the essential facts must be consistent with the hypothesis of guilt, as that is to be compared with all the facts proved; (3} "he facts crust exclude every other reasonable theory or hypothesis except that of guilt: and (i) ******"
(2 Wharton's Criminal Evidence, 11th Ed.,
sec.922, pp.1605-1606). (Und erscoring supplied). .
»***■*. But when circumstantial evidence alone is relied upon, the facts and circumstances must form a complete chain, and point directly and unerringly to the accused's guilt. In other words, they must be of a conclusive character. Here suspicions, probabilities. or suppositions do not warrant a conviction.
The circumstances must be sufficient to show guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. ****."
(2 TJharton’s Criminal Evidence, 11th Ed., sec.922, pp.1604-16Q5). (Underscoring supplied).
To recapitulate the evidence aside from the entry contained in the extract copy of the morning report, -accused's organization, a task force, departed for an unknown destination outside the United Kingdom 20 January 1943. Accused was "picked up" about 41 days later at Cardiff, Wales, being then in the custody of the military police. He surrendered at Newport, Wales, but the evidence did not show whether such surrender occurred prior to or after the date of departure of his organization. Accused knew that the designation of his organization was "2211-B".	In
my opinion such evidence, circumstantial in character, and considered in its entirety, is not legally sufficient to establish a prima facie case of absence without leave.
For the reasons stated therein, I concur with the majority opinion of the Board of Review that the extract copy of the morning report of accused's organization (Pros.Ex.l) should not have been admitted in evidence and that it should not be considered.
- 3
f t %
CONFIDENTIAL
3.	For the reasons stated I am of the opinion that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence as approved by the reviewing authority.
Judge Advocate
23 Jul 1943
A. P. 0. 871. U. S. Army.
In reply refer to:
CM ETO 527
SUBJECT:	CM	ETO	527, Private PHILIP J. ASTRELLA (12009327),
Company D, Casual Replacement Group (Provisional).
TO :	Staff	Judge Advocate, Headquarters, Western Base
Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515, United States Army.
1.	Herewith transmitted is a copy of the holding of the Board of Review in the case of the soldier named above. You will note that the Board finds the record legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as approved fcy the reviewing authority, and to support the sentence.
2.	I concur in the holding of the Board of Review.
E. C. MeNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
1 Incl:
Holding of Board of Review.
- 1 -
#(91)
