#(115)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations
APO 871
Board of Review* ETO no.
UNITED STATES vs.
Private MOIRIS L. BARTLETT (6994476), Company B,
392nd Port Battalion, Transportation Corps.
UNITED STATES ARM! FORCES IN ICELAND.
Trial hy G.C.M., convened at Camp Curtis, Iceland, 9 October 1942. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of an pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for 3 years. U.S. Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates
1. The record of trial in the case of Private Morris L. Bartlett, (6994476), Company B, 392nd Port Battalion, Transportation Corps, has been examined in the Office of the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this opinion, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations.
2* The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE: Violation of the 64th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	MORRIS L. BARTLETT,
Company "B", 392nd Port Bn, T Corps A.P.0.860, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.I., having received a lawful command from Captain Clarence W. Archer, his superior officer, to push a concrete roller to level off roadway, did at Camp Haggi, Iceland, on or about September 16, 1942, willfully disobey the same.
He pleaded "Not guilty" to, and was found guilty of, the Charge and Specification. Evidence of three previous convictions was introduced.
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due, or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor for the term of 10 years.
(116)
ii.'^IUkL
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, hut suspended the execution of the dishonorable discharge until release of accused from confinement, remitted seven years of the confinement and designated the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas, as the place of confinement. He directed that accused be confined in the U.S. Army Forced/§?ockade until further orders*
The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court Martial Order No. 89, Headquarters, U*S. Army Forces (in Iceland),
A.P.O. 860, c/o Postmaster, New York City, New York, dated 1 November 1942*
3.	The accused was on 16 September 1942 a member of Company "B", 392nd. Port Battalion Transportation Corps, which was stationed on that date at Camp Haggi, Iceland. Captain Clarence W, Archer was accused's company commander and Major Harold R. Low was the battalion commander. Accused was at that time under sentence of a special court-martial restricting him to the limits of the Camp. He and a certain Private Abrams were late for reveille (R.29) and this fact was reported to Capt. Archer by the first sergeant. Capt. Archer instructed S/Sgt, Bradley to "have Privates Bartlett and Abrams push the roller". Bradley gave the order to accused and Abrams (R.23, 25). They failed to comply with it. Bradley went to their hut, and Inquired as to whether they were going to comply with the order he had given them. Accused and companion informed Bradley "We're not refusing anything but we are not going to push the roller" (R.23), Bradley reported this fact to Capt. Archer. Thereafter, accused and Abrams were ordered by Bradley toreport to Capt. Archer in the orderly room (R.24-), At that time and place Capt. Archer gave a direct verbal order to accused and Abrams to push a certain concrete roller over the camp area. Accused admits he willfully disobeyed this order. Within a short time thereafter accused and Abrams were moved to Halogoland and were placed in solitary confinement for a period of four days (September 16 to September 20) on a bread-and-water diet; which confinement was terminated only when accused made his escape.
The charges upon which accused was tried were preferred on 22 September 1942, but did not include any charge for breaking confinement. During the period of confinement accused was shown on the company morning report "for duty".
Relevant and material evidence is hereinafter set forth in connection with the discussion of the legal issues involved.
A. At the appropriate opportunity upon the opening of the trial the accused entered a plea in bar as follows*
"The accused enters a plea in bar of trial in that he received punishment for this offense before, while in confinement, in an area to(o) small where he was placed on bread and water diet for a period of a few days." (R.4).
p/V."*! ri CMT1M
233147
110
(117)
The trial judge advocate responded:
"If it please the court, the prosecution objects to any such questions that are brought before the court by the defense in that it has no bearing on the case to be tried." (R.4).
The following colloquy then ensued:
"Law Member:	The	defense	has	offered a plea
in bar of trial and that does have a definite bearing on the proceedings and a definite place in it. Is the defense prepared to present actual evidence or stipulated evidence?
Defense:	I	have	a witness, sir.
Law Member:	Proceed. (R.4).
Defense:	I	should like to call Lieutenant Zober."
Second Lieutenant Francis T. Zober was then sworn and ''testified on direct examination in substance as follows:	The accused
was in confinement on bread and water in a place in Halogoland called the "dungeon" for four daysj he was placed there because he refused to push a roller as ordered by his company commander; six other men have been confined in this inclosure at various times and they were placed there as punishment (R.5).
Upon the prosecution refusing to cross-examine the witness he was subjected to examination by members of the court and testified further:	that he did not see accused in the dungeon, but knew accused
broke confinement on the fourth day; that he did not have personal knowledge that accused was fed only on bread and water; that he has never known a man to be in the "dungeon" except for punishment; that there is no other guard-house in Halogoland; that there is the U.S. Army stockade in Camp Haggi, but these men were sent to the Halogoland stockade or "dungeon"; that he did not believe the "dungeon" was an authorized guard-house, but thought it was authorized by the battalion commander (R.6).
At the conclusion of the examination of Lieut. Zober, there was the following discussion:
"HAL
2 3 3 £ 4 7
3
no
(118)
"Defense: Since there seems to be some doubt as to whether or not the accused was actually in this place as defined by the witness, the accused himself is ready to take the stand and testify where he was during this period. He has been advised of his rights and is willing to take the stand under oath (R.6).
"President: The accused will be given his opportunity to testify regarding anything pertaining to this case at the conclusion of the case for the prosecution, and unless there is some good reason whv this testimony has to be given at this time, the court feels that the proper time for the accused to testify is after the prosecution has rested (R.6). (underscoring supplied).
"Defense: The defense knows of no better way to . demonstrate to the court exactly what treatment the accused received than to have the accused tell the court in his own words both the treatment and his reactions*to it (R.7).
"Law Member:	Has	the defense any further
evidence to offer in support of this plea?
"Defense:	The	defense	has	nothing	further	to
offer in support of this plea except to call judicial notice that the charges in this case were preferred on September 22, 6 days after the commission of the alleged offense —
6 days after the accused was placed in this confinement which has been related in the testimony. The statement has been made to the court that the accused was punished for the offense now being considered (R.7).
"President: Has the prosecution anything further to offer to refute the evidence presented by the defense?
"Prosecution: The prosecution has not.
"President: The court will call as a witness in connection with this, the commanding officer who had the power to award punishment.
- K -
' V : '-iT; : [
236447
110
(119)
riCtNT!AL
Thereupon Captain Clarence W. Archer, Company "B",
392nd Port Battalion, Transportation Corps^ was sworn as a witness; for the court (R.7) . His testimony at this point in the trial was in substance that on 16 Sept 1942 he was accused's company commander (R«7); accused has not been adequately punished nor punished at all for any offense committed on September 16 under the 64th Article of War; accused was placed in arrest at time of alleged offense and was sent over to Major Low; he was kept in confinement although witness did not see him; he was at that time also undergoing punishment of three months restriction imposed by a special court; he was also restricted to his own camp area as company punishment; he was confined outside of his own camp because he went A1DL and broke his restrictions; 11161*6 Is a prisoner stockade at. Haggi but members of witness's command are not confined there; after court-martial proceedings they are sent to Iceland Base Command Stockade end all others are sent tc Camp Halogoland; Major Low gave the witness instructions if ha considered accused incorrigible to send him over to Halogoland (R.8).
Upon cross-examination by the defense, Capt. Archer stated that other men had been sent to Halogoland for confinement by calling Major Low and asking him what he wanted to do about it, and then they were sent over; witness did not know there was a guard-house at Halogoland until after he sent accused there (R.10); witness informed Major Low he was sending accused to him because he could not be handled in the company; no one to the knowledge of witness was ever sent to Camp Halogoland as a measure of punishment, but no charges were ever preferred against any of the men held in the Halogoland dungeon, and in witness's mind this was not punishment (R.lOj; during the period September 16 to 20,, accused was marked on morning report "for duty", but he was not for company duty; at the beginning of these four days accused had been sent to Major Low and witness made no effort to find out where he was (R.10), or what disposition had bean made of him; witness did not know Major Low placed men sent to him in the stocked*, and denied he stated or knew the Halogoland place of confinement was vised "to instill religion into the soldier" (R.ll), and witness did not remember whether he had seen a Private Hinson in the dungeon (R,ll)»
Private Edward C. Ritter, Co.B, 392nd Port Bn., Trans. Corps, who was called as a witness by the defense testified that he knew a Private Hinson of Co. B., about September 15. and on said date witness and Hinson were in solitary confinement in the dungeon at Camp Halogoland; accused was confined after witness and Hinson; there were no visitors, except the battalion commander (R„13)*
238147	’5‘
110
(120)
It was stipulated that if Major Low were present and sworn as a witness he would testify that to the best of his knowledge the punishment given accused at Halogoland between September 16 and 20, 1942 was not in connection with violation of the 64th Article of War and that subsequent to September 20 orders were received from higher authority to prefer charges against accused for violation of AW 64 and such orders were passed to Capt. Archer (R.14)*
Upon the prosecution indicating it had no further evidence to offer the Law Member ruled*
"Subject to objection by any member of the court, the plea in bar of trial entered by the defense is refused*" (R.14)*
This ruling was made without hearing from accused himself inasmuch as he had been denied the right to take the witness stand in support of the plea in bar* Such ruling was obviously premature, and was a nullity. The accused then pleaded "not guilty" to the Charge and Specification and then the Court proceeded to hear evidence on the merits of the case*
Later in the trial on the merits, when the prosecution had rested, accused was sworn as a witness on his own behalf and testified at length concerning events connected with his confinement at Halogoland dungeon* At the conclusion of his testimony the defense asked the Court to re-consider the plea in bar of trial inasmuch as it had now heard accused’s testimony (R«34)*
The accused by his plea asserted that he had received former punishment for the offense for which he stood charged before the Court, viz* that he had been confined in the "dungeon" at Halogoland for four days on a bread and water diet as punishment for hie refusal to obey Capt. Archer's order to push the concrete roller (R.34)* The Law Member then ruled* "Subject to objection by any member of the court the plea of the defense is refused*" (R.34).
The record of trial exhibits a lamentable lack of understanding on the part of the President, Law Member, Trial Judge Advocate and the Court itself, of the function and purpose of a plea in bar, and the proper practice in presentation of evidence in support and negation thereof. The plea is not a dilatory plea nor an obstacle in the process of military justice*
It is a legitimate and highly important procedure and must not be regarded lightly by any court. Such a plea, properly sustained by evidence, should forthwith terminate the trial, subject to the further orders of the convening authority (M.C.M., sec.64, pg.50). That pleas in bar of trial are recognized by the Articles of War and Manual of Courts-Martial is clear from the following quotations*
236447
6
vr?DENTIAL
110
h r t n
jENTIAL
(121)
"Pleas in court-martial procedure include plea to the jurisdiction, plea in abatement, plea in bar of trial, and pleas to the general issue. The first three are known as special pleas." (Underscoring supplied).
"Except as otherwise Indicated in the dlscugsion of special pleas, an accused will not be asked or required to plead further to a specification or charge as long as the action of the court in sustaining a special plea thereto standa; but when all the special pleas entered to a given charge or specification are overruled, the accused should plead to the general issue."
"Notwithstanding the action of the court on special pleas or other similar objections, the trial may proceed in the usual course as long as one or more specifications and charges remain as to which a plea to the general issue may be made or stands. For example, when pleas in bar are sustained to all but one specification and charge, to which the plea is not guilty, the trial on that specification and charge may continue. But where, as a result of the action of the court on special pleas or other similar objections, the trial can not proceed further, the court adjourns and submits the record of its proceedings as far as had to the reviewing authority. *****"
"A special plea should briefly and clearly set forth the nature and grounds of the objection which it is intended to raise. The substance of the plea and not the designation given to it will control; for instance, if an accused enters a plea, which he calls a plea in abatement, but which in fact raises an objection to trial on jurisdictional grounds, the plea will be considered as a plea to the jurisdiction.
Except as otherwise indicated in the discussion of special pleas, the burden of supporting a special plea by a preponderance of proof rests on the accused. With the same exception, a plea to the general issue may be regarded as a waiver of any objection then known to the accused which is not asserted by a special
23o447
-7 - 0-Mr!DENT!AL
110
(122)
'•'JtNUAl
"plea. **********
Any objection which might be asserted by & special plea may if not asserted be brought to the attention of the accused by the court.
Before passing on a contested special plea the court will give each side an opportunity to introduce evidence and make an argument.
A decision on a special plea is a decision on an interlocutory Question." (M.C.M.. sec.64. pg.50-51).(Underscoring supplied).
"Punishment under the 104th Article of War may be pleaded in bar of trial. Such punishment, however, does not bar trial for another crime or offense growing out of the same act or omission. For instance,
•	punishment	under AW 104 for reckless driving
would not bar trial for manslaughter where the reckless driving caused a death."
(M.C.M., sec.69c, pg.54)«
The orderly and correct method of presenting such a plea is as follows*
(a)	The accused will present his evidence in support of the plea;
(b)	The prosecution will present its evidence negativing or confessing and avoiding accused'8 evidence;
(c)	The accused will present his evidence in rebuttal;
(d)	The defense counsel will submit his argument;
(e)	The prosecution will submit its argument;
(f)	The accused is entitled to the closing argument. Inasmuch as a decision on plea in bar is a decision on an interlocutory question, the Law Member will render the decision, subject to
the objection of any member of the court. Upon such objection being made, the court will close and the issue will be decided by a vive voce majority vote (AW 31) •
The above practice is simple and easy to follow, and will meet the ordinary situation. However, there are instances where a deviation is permissible, and in fact is necessary that the ends of justice be assured (M.C.M., sec.64> pg«50). In instances where the plea is over-ruled and in the subsequent trial on the merits, facts are revealed which indicate that the ruling on the plea was erroneous and the plea should have been sustained, the court has authority to reconsider its former ruling and may reverse itself. Such reversal will forthwith end the hearing, subject to orders of the convening
236447. g . r
110
rn"r!DEMTIAL
(123)
authority. Likewise, should a plea be sustained as to a certain charge or specification, and continued on the merits as to other charges and specifications, the Court may before conclusion of the trial reconsider its decision on the plea in bar and reverse itself if it deems such action proper (M.C.M., sec.64, pg.50).
The burden of proving the plea by a preponderance of the evidence was upon the accused. (M.C.M., sec.64a, pg.51; 16 C.J., sec*769, pg.425i 2 Bishops New Criminal Procedure, sec.816, pg.633; sec.1095, pg.94l)« Since the accused had the affirmative of the issue he had the right to open and close the evidence and the argument on the issue of the special plea. (64 C.J., sec.71, pg.76). The accused, on his own request, was a competent witness on his own behalf (16 C.J., sec.770, pg.427; M.C.M., sec.120, pg.125).
It was the President of the Court who denied accused the right to testify on the issue created by the plea in bar (R.6).
In making this ruling he usurped authority. This request of the accused to take the stand involved an interlocutory question,
(AW 31) and it was the right and duty of the Law Member to rule thereon. (AW 3l)«
"The law member of a general court-martial, whenever present, will, instead of the president, rule in open court on all interlocutory questions other than challenges arising during the proceedings."
(M.C.M., par.51d, pg.40).
Although irregular the ruling of the President became the ruling of the Court because of absence of objection.
The fact that accused was permitted to testify to facts in support of his plea in bar, after the prosecution had submitted its evidence on the merits of the case, does not cure this error.
It was the duty of the court to dispose of the plea before it proceeded with the trial on the merits. (16 C.J., sec.771, pg.428j Thompson vs. United States 155 U.S. 271, 39, L.ED.146). The accused, having offered himself as a witness in support of his plea, was entitled to be heard on the issue created by the plea. He had the right to assert the plea in bar of trial and submit his evidence in support thereof, ‘whether he was ultimately successful, or not.
At this stage of the trial the validity of the plea was not in question. It was his right to make the effort to bar trial on the merits, by submitting all of his evidence in support of his plea and to secure from the court its decision thereon before being compelled to defend himself on the merits. The procedure followed by the court forced accused to make his election as to defending the general issue on his plea of "not guilty" prior to the court's determination of his plea in bar and thereby nullified one of the principal protective purposes of the plea. Such action was highly injurious to accused*
2 3(5447
rr-.
;n\!r?nrwr?AL
9
110
CONFIDENTIAL
The Board of Review is of the opinion that prejudicial error was committed by the refusal to allow accused to testify at the stage of the trial when the issue on the plea in bar was being tried, and that on this ground the record is legally insufficient to sustain the findings and the sentence,
5,	The prosecution failed to prove the specific terms of Capt. Archer*8 order to accused "to push the roller*• Capt. Archer testified he ordered accused"to push the roller* but he could not remember for how long a period he ordered accused to perform this task (R*17). The evidence of Trefois simply confirms that of Capt, Archer (R.22, 23) • Accused on the other hand definitely asserts that Capt, Archer issued him the following verbal ordert "I am giving you a direct order. You will push the roller from 7*45 until 12*00 o’clock noon, I will give you 15 minutes for dinner at which time you will fall out and push the roller until 5*00 o’clock, I will give you 15 minutes for supper and until 9*00 o’clock you will walk full pack," (R,29),
In view of the fact that accused's testimony of the details of the order stands uncontradicted, the court undoubtedly found that the order given was the one related by accused. The Board of Review, sitting in appellate review will accept such finding.
Capt. Archer declares that the order was not given for company punishment (R.16); nor because accused broke restriction (R,19) and that he didn't remember whether accused was late for reveille on September 16 (R,18), He further asserts the order was given accused because he was on camp detail and that he was on camp detail because he was under restrictions as a result of sentence of a special court-martial (R.18), Accused declares that the order was given as company punishment (R.29, 30, 31}, but he also admits that he knew it was given to him by a superior officer and that he willfully disobeyed same (R.30).
The Manual for Courts-Martial expressly provides:
"The order must relate to military duty and be one which the superior officer is authorized under the circumstances to give the accused. Disobedience of an order which has for its sole object the attainment of some private end, or which is given for the sole purpose of increasing the penalty for an offense which it is expected the accused may commit, is not punishable under this article, A person can not be convicted under this article if the order was illegal; but an order requiring the performance of a military duty or act is disobeyed at the peril of the subordinate.#***"
(M.C.M., 1928, pg. 148-149).
236447
110
CONFIDENTIAL
(125)
"An order given by a superior pfficer for the sole purpose of subjecting accused to the maximum punishment imposable and with the expectation that he would disobey it is unlawful under M.C.M. 1928, par.l34b and disobedience thereof is not punishable under AW 64."	(C.¥,219946(1942); Bui. JAQ.
Vol.I, No.l, par.422(6), pg.18).
The exact modus operand! of the giving of the order to accused "to push the roller" is exhibited in the following excerpts from testimony:
Cant. Archer:
"Q, Will you describe to the court just exactly what happened?
A, On the morning of September 16, I gave Bartlett-Private Bartlett an order to push the roller. He did not, so I had Sergeant Przelocki get the Manual for Courts-Martial, and I read him the 64th Article of War. I gave him every opportunity in which to push the roller,
Q, Did the accused say anything to you?
A, At that time he said he wouldn't push the roller,
Q, How long was the accused in the orderly room?
A, Oh, I'd say 15 minutes,
Q. Why was Private Bartlett in the orderly room at this time?
A, Why was he in? Because I wanted him to push the roller,
Q, You mean you had him summoned in the orderly room for the purpose of giving him an order to push the roller?
A, That's right,
Q, Doesn't the First Sergeant take care of such details?
A, Sometimes he does and sometimes he does not. (R.15),
Q. Why in this particular case did you call a private-soldier into the orderly room in order that you might give him a simple order to push the roller?
A. In the past he had been in the habit of refusing to take orders from non-coms.
Q. Had he previously disobeyed an order on that date to push this roller?
A. I don't remember if he did or not.
Q. Had you instructed any of your non-commissioned
officers to tell Private Bartlett to push this roller?
A. Yes, I believe I told Sergeant Bradley— I don't know whether It was before or afterwards.
Q. Was anyone else in the orderly room at this time?
2-38447
11 -
110
i*k
"t-t:nual
(126)
"A. There was Sergeants Coughlin, Przevlocki,
Bradley, Trefols and Private Abrams.
Q, Why was Private Abrams in the orderly room at this time?
A. Because he also refused to push the roller*
Q. Then Private Bartlett had already refused to push the roller?
A. I said Abrams, not Bartlett.
Q. In your statement you said that Private Abrams also had refused to push the roller. When you say 'also' do you refer to another person who had refused to push the roller?
A. Well, on that particular morning I had about 10 or 15 men that didn't want to take company punishment.
Q. Was Private Bartlett one of these men?
A. No, he was not—he wasn't summoned in to push the roller for company punishment. (R.16).
Q. But you stated Private Bartlett wouldn't do the job?
A. He wouldn't take the order from the non-com.
Q. Did you think that if you gave him an order he would enter into the spirit of the thing any more than if given by a non-com?
A. About 50 percent of the time, he would.
Q. Why was Private Bartlett on camp detail?
A. Because he was restricted.
Q. Did Private Bartlett miss reveille on September 16?
A, I don't remember whether he did or not.
Q. When you sent Sergeant Bradley out to instruct Private Bartlett to push the roller, did you tell him why Private Bartlett was to push the roller?
A. I don't remember whether I did or not.
Q. What did Sergeant Bradley say when he came back into the orderly room?
A. I don't remember just exactly what he did say.
Q. Do you remember the text of what he said?
A. No, I don't.
Q. Why did he come up to the orderly room?
A. Most likely to tell me that Bartlett wouldn't push the roller.
Q« And that was when you called Private Bartlett into the orderly room?
A. I don't remember whether it was before or after.
Q. When you gave this order to Private Bartlett did you speak to him when he failed to carry it out?
A. Not necessarily.
Q. Didn't Sergeant Bradley tell you that he had already refused to push the roller?
A. I don't remember whether it was before or after.
I gave the man about 5 chances. (R.17).
236447
110
(127)
o.r
«xj.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
What is the nature of this camp detail—is that a punishment detail?
No, sir, it isn't*
I would like to ask you again, captain, was Private Bartlett late for reveille on September 16? I don't remember.
If he had been late for reveille what would you have done about it?
It all depends on the circumstances," (R,18)
Staff Sergeant Clyde S* Bradley*
"Q. Will you describe to the court just exactly what happened?
A, Well, on this morning of September 16, I was sent out to have Private Bartlett and Abrams push the roller by order of the company commander. I did so, I gave him the order. A few moments later I saw he wasn't pushing the roller so I went out and asked about it and was informed that he was iu his but. I went down to the hut and asked him if they refused my order. Private Abrams did the talking. Private Bartlett was sitting there. He said: "We're not refusing anything but we are not going to push the roller", and I reported the fact to the company commander,
Q, Private Bartlett didn't say anything further?
A. No, sir. Private Abrams did the talking.
Q. Where did you go then?
A. I went to the orderly room. (Rt23, 24.)
Q. Were you in the orderly room with Private Bartlett at any time?
A. No, sir, I wasn't in the orderly room with him.
Q. Was Private Bartlett in the orderly room at any time?
A. I had him report to the company commander.
Q. How did he get to the orderly room?
A. I beg pardon.
Q. How did they get them--did you accompany them?
A. I didn't go with them, no, sir; I went down and told the company commander.
Q. When you told Private Bartlett to push the roller where was he?
A. He was outside the company orderly room. (R.24-).
Q. I think you said in your statement at the time you arrived to the hut and talked to these two men—to the effect that you asked him if they were going to refuse the order. Did you mean by that that you had given them an order to run the roller?
236447
13
110
(128)
confidential
"A* Yes, dir, I did*
Q* Was that sometime before?
A* It was that morning, sir* (R*25)«
Q* Sergeant, you testified that you ordered Abrams and Bartlett to push this roller* What were the circumstances of your giving such an order?
A* Well, I was ordered to do so by the company commander, sir, so I did*
Q* Well, was that as punishment?
A* I don't know what the reason was*
Q. You have also testified that these two men refused to obey that order?
4* Yes, sir*
Q* Had either of these men previously refused to obey any order you gave them?
A* I can't remember, sir* (R*25)«
"Q. What was that roller customarily used for?
A. Well, for paving the road around camp and levelling the gravel*
Q* Was that a punishment detail?
A* Well, in some cases it was and some it wasn't* (R*25)«
The accused's narration of events concerned with the giving of the order is as follows:
"A* Yes, sir, on the morning of September 15, 1942, there was a reveille formation* I stood this formation. Ifor name was not called out. I was on camp detail at that time and I figured I might be on camp detail that day and I didn't have to stay In this formation—-so the first sergeant was there at that time and on the same day we got this new first sergeant; and on the morning of September 16, 1942, I missed this formation, and at that time Sergeant Simon had put my name down on the list for missing reveille formation,. and this list was sent in, and I was sent down to report to the company commander. I reported to him, saluted him. He asked me where I was for reveille* I told him the story, that I stood it the morning before and I didn't have to stand it because I was on camp detail. He told me I was supposed to stand it and then he told me to push the roller. He told me: "I am giving you a direct order". He said: "You will push the roller from 7:45 until 12:00 o'clock noon. I will give you 15 minutes for dinner at which time you will fall out and push the roller until 5:00 o'clock, I will give you 15 minutes for supper and until 9:00 o'clock you will walk full field pack--" and I turned around and I walked out* I never told
236447
110
(129)
■M ■. !
"him I was refusing that order or anything.
I went down to ny hut and later on he sent Sergeant Bradley down to the hut. Sergeant Bradley asked us, "Are you going to push the roller?" and Private Abrams told him we weren’t refusing to do it but we weren't going to push it. I figured about ten minutes later Sergeant Przevlocki was sent down. He told us to roll up our equipment, keep our bunks, get our mess kits out, and turn the rest of our equipment in, that we were going for a ride. *»**" (R.29)•
(Underscoring supplied).
There is no such conflict between prosecution's and defense's evidence that is not subject to reasonable reconciliation. The scene may be reconstructed without difficulty. The accused and Private Abrams were late for reveille (R.29). Sergeant Simon, put their names "down on the list for missing reveille formation", and it is logical to assume thiB fact was reported to Capt. Archer who instructed Sergt. Bradley to "have Privates Bartlett and Abrams push the roller" (R.23, 25) • Bradley gave the order to accused and Abrams (R.23, 25) and they failed to comply with it (R.23, 25). Bradley went to their hut and made inquiry as to whether the two soldiers were going to push the roller (R.23). Upon being informed by them that they were "not going to push the roller", Bradley reported the fact to Caut. Archer (R.23, 24). Thereafter accused and Abrams were ordered by Bradley to report to Capt. Archer iii the orderly room (R.24).
Capt. Archer's evidence on this aspect of the case is very vague, indistinct and unsatisfactory. He cannot remember when he instructed Bradley to order accused and Abrams to push the roller -whether before or after he personally gave the order to the two soldiers (R.l6)j he does not remember whether accused had disobeyed a previous order given on that date to push the roller (R.l6)j but he states that Abrams was in the orderly room "because he also refused to push the roller" (R.16). Consequently Capt. Archer's evidence is without probative force, except insofar as it suggests he had given the previous instruction to Bradley. When accused appeared before the company commander (R.29), he received the personal order from him "to push the roller" (R.29). Accused returned to the hut and soon Bradley reappeared and again made inquiry of accused and Abrams if they were going to push the roller (R.29).
About ten minutes later Sergeant Przevlocki appeared and gave orders for the hvD soldiers (accused and Abrams) to prepare to go to Halogoland (R.29).
The evidence very firmly fixes the fact that prior to Capt. Archer's direct order to accused, Bradley, under Capt. Archer's instructions, had given accused an order "to push the roller" which
23o4471c
“ 15
110

(130)
accused refused to obey. If the order was a legal order, this refusal consituted a violation of AW 65 - the willful disobedience of a lawful order of a non-commissioned officer while in the execution of his office. Thereafter, Capt. Archer summoned accused before him and issued him the direct verbal order "to push, the roller" which accused also refused to obey. If the order were valid, such disobedience constituted a violation of AW 64.
The offense of refusing to obey the lawful order of a superior officer under AW 64 is a far more serious offense than will-ful disobedience of a lawful order of a non-commissioned officer under AW 65. The death penalty is a permissible form of punishment for the former offense and not for the latter.
A reasonable interpretation and analysis of the evidence leads to the inescapable conclusion that Capt. Archer, knew full well when he summoned accused before him and personally ordered him "to push the roller" that accused had refused to obey the same order previously given him by the non-commissioned officer, Bradley, under instructions from the Captain, and that in view of accused’s recalcitrance and incorrigibility - persistently asserted by Capt. Archer in his testimony (R.8, 9) there was every probability that he would refuse to obey his (Capt. Archer's) order. Under such circumstances it is a logical conclusion that Capt. Archer gave the order to accused for the-purpose of increasing the penalty for an offense "which he expected the accused to commit" and therefore the order was unlawful and accused cannot be found guilty of violating AW 64. On this ground the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally insufficient to sustain the findings of guilty.
The Board of Review does not now hold that every order given by an officer to a soldier after a like order has been given by a non-commissioned officer to the soldier (and the soldier has refused to obey the same) constitutes an order given with the intention of increasing the penalty and is therefore void. On the contrary, the Board of Review recognizes the fact that probably in most instances such order of the superior officer would not be subject to the criticisms made of the order in the instant case.
The facts and circumstances which, surround the giving of the order are of great importance in determining its purpose. The circumstances and conditions under which Capt. Archer gave the order involved in this case, were such, in the opinion of the Board of Review, as to compel the conclusion that the order was given with the deliberate purpose of increasing the punishment which might be imposed upon accused. This conclusion is strengthened by Capt. Archer's obscure and uncertain testimony concerning the terms of the order itself and of the incidents surrounding the episode. ' The Board of Review considers it highly desirable that its instant opinion be read and considered with the limitation herein set forth..
- ^ ^ 1 ?6 -
110
(131)
'N *IAL
6* The order which the evidence indicates was aerially given contains also an inherent vice. The exact form of the order is indicated by the testimony of accused (R.29) which being uncontradlcted is accepted by the Board of Review as being the order given by Capt. Archer to accused in the company orderly room on the morning of September \6, 1942. The same has been set forth above.
Capt. Archer’s testimony relative to facts and circumstances surrounding the giving of the order heretofore has been adequately summarized.
First Sergeant Lambert Trefois, Co. B, 392nd Port Bn, Transportation Corps, testified he was in the orderly room of the company on the morning of 16 Sept 1942 when Capt. Archer read the 64th Article of War to accused and "told him to go out and push the roller", and accused after receiving the order "turned around and walked out of the room" (R.22, 23).
The testimony of Staff Sergeant Bradley has been set forth above.
The evidence of the defense consisted of accused’s sworn testimony. A pertinent excerpt has been inserted above, and in addition accused stated that Capt. Archer did not read him AW 64; accused failed to 'push the roller because he figured the order was beyond company punishment; accused has been in the military service for three years and eleven days; Capt. Archer’s order "to push the roller" was directed to accused and Private Abrams; accused willfully disobeyed this order from a superior officer;
"the roller was pushed to level roads"; accused "helped build those rollers and the way he told me, they were built for company punishment; he said to me they were built for company punishment" (R.30); accused would draw a distinction between orders to do a job as an every day affair and one for company punishment; this order was given as company punishment (R.3l); accused has received company punishment previously, but does not know about AW 104 (R.32).
The burden was on the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt every element of the offense. (M.C.M., sec.78, pg.62). The accused cannot be convicted of the offense of disobeying the order of a superior officer if the order was illegal. The validity of the order is the foundation of prosecution's case (M.C.M., sec.1348, pgs.148, 149), and failing on this issue the charge against accused must fail.
The function and authority of the Board of Review in considering the instant question involving the validity of the order is set forth in an approved holding as follows:
17 -
236447"
• r
110
(132)
The Board of Review, in scrutinizing proof and the bases of inferences does not weigh evidence or usurp the functions of courts and reviewing authorities in determining controverted questions of fact. In its capacity of an appellate body, it must, however, in every case determine whether there is evidence of record legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty (A.W. 50^-). If any part of a finding of guilty/on an inference of fact, it is the duty of the Board of Review to determine whether there is in the evidence a reasonable basis for the inference. (C.M.150823, Robles; C.M.150100, Bruch; C.M. 150298, -Tohnson;
C.M.151502, Gage; C.M.152797, Veins; C.M.154B54, Wilson; C.M.156009, Green; C.M.206522, Young; C.M.207591, Nash et al). The following has been quoted, with approval, by the Eoard of Review (C.M.1974-08, McCrimon; C.M.206522, Young; C.M.207591, Nash et al):
•We must look alone to the evidence as we find •
. it in the record, and applying to it the measure of the law, ascertain whether or not it fills that measure. It will not do to sustain convictions based upon suspicions or inadequate testimony. It would be a dangerous precedent to do so, and would render precarious the protection which the law seels to throw arcimd the lives and liberties of the citizens’
(Buntain v. State, 15 Tex. Appeals, 490)". (C.M.212505, Tinton).
The problem presented revolves about the opposing claims of Capt. Archer and the accused, which Naj| begn^set forth in detail above. If the determination of the issui/upon a resolving of conflict in testimony 4* an entirely different situation would exist than is actually presented by the record of trial. It was the duty of the court to weigh and evaluate the evidence and such action is no part of the duty of the Board of Review sitting in appellate review. It Is however, the duty and right of the Eoard of Review to determine whether or not there is in the record, evidence either proving directly or forming a reasonable basis for the inference that the order was a valid one.
An order, itself, is the best evidence of its nature and purpose, and it may well be that it speaks with such unqualified force and cogency that the testimony of the interested persons possesses no juridical value. The Board of Review believes that
236447
- 18
110
(133)
such is the situation in this case. The intrinsic nature of the order proclaims that it was an order of punishment, and it is the order, itself, which entirely negatives Capt. Archer's testimony and renders it mere argumentative conclusions. The accused was required to push the roller from 7:4-5 a.m., to 12 noon. He was then allowed 15 minutes for dinner. From 12:15 p.m., to 5:00 p.m., he was to push the roller, when he was allowed 15 minutes for supper and then until 9:00 p.m.. he was to walk full pack. The underscored parts of the order bespeak punishment; they are not work detail requirements. The reduction in time for meals is punitive. Soldiers who are detailed for camp work are not penalized in that manner. The requirement to "to walk full pack" for 1 hour 4-5 minutes in the evening after the usual hours for policing duties are over, can have no possible connection with a camp detail. Such requirement is highly punitive.
Under this state of the evidence a finding that the order was given as a matter of company or camp detail would be clearly against the overwhelming weight of the evidence - so overwhelming in fact that there is no evidence to support it. The Board of Review is therefore acting entirely within the scope of its powers in concluding that the accused was given an order of punishment and not of work detail.
The order, being a punishment order, was given by Capt, Archer either under the authority of AW 104 or .it was an arbitrary assumption of authority by him. Under such situation the well known rule as to presumptions and inferences is applicable:
"The presumption against illegality, and its equivalent expressions that there is no presumption against legality, or in favor of illegality, that there is a presumption in favor of legality, that facts consistent with legality are presumed to exist, or that where a situation i3 explainable on the basis of legality, it will be assumed that such is the true explanation, present a mile of administration that he who claims the existence of illegality must prove it.****"
(22 Corpus Juris, sec.83, pg.147).
"The courts will not impute a guilty construction or inference to the facts when a construction or inference compatible with innocence arises therefrom with equal force and fairness. In fact, it is always the duty of a court to resolve the circumstances of evidence upon a
- 19 -
236447
110
•V* .. .J&KtiAL
(134)
"theory of*Innocence rather than unop a theory of guilt where It Is possible to do so."(Wharton's Criminal Evidence, Vol.I, sec,72, pg.87).
(Underscoring supplied)*
Accused had missed reville formation (R*29) that morning. This was a "minor offense" under AW 104*	(M.C.M.,
sec.106, pg.104). Capt. Archer had reason, in spite of his protestation otherwise, to inflict disciplinary punishment upon accused. The type of punishment - "to push the roller" -was such as is permissible under AW 104. It was in the nature of extra fatigue duty and may be used as punishment under the Article (SPJGA 220.69, Aug 19, 1942, Bui. JAG., Vol.I, No.3, pg.165). The application of the foregoing rule as to presumptions and inferences together with recognition of the circumstances under which the order was given make it logical and consistent with the facts of the case to conclude that Capt. Archer gave the order as disciplinary punishment under AW 104.
By virtue of AW 104, accused' s company commander was authorized for "minor offenses" to:
"impose disciplinary punishments upon persons of his command without intervention of a court-martial, unless the accused demands trial by court-martial. **** (AW 104)*
"The commanding officer, after ascertaining to his satisfaction, by such investigation as he deems necessary, that an offense cognizable by him under A.W, 104 has been committed by a member of his command, will notify such member of the nature of such offense as clearly and concisely as may be, and inform him that he proposes to impose punishment under A.W. 104 as to such offense unless trial by court-martial for the same is demanded." (M.C.M., 1928, par.107, pg.104)*
236347
• .rtk.
20
110
(135)
«■**** With reference to each offense as to which no demand for trial by court-martial is made, the commanding officer may proceed to impose punishment. The accused will be notified of the punishment imposed an soon as practicable and at the same time will be informed of his right to appeal# ****"
(M.C.M., 1928, par.107, pg.105).
ttKXX«XK«Xtttt*X**X
"A person punished under authority of this article who deems his punishment unjust or disproportionate to the offense may, through proper channels, appeal to the next superior authority, but may in the meantime be required to undergo the punishment adjudged. (A.W.104)
An appeal not made within a reasonable time may be rejected bythe 'next superior authority'.
An appeal will be in writing through proper channels (see 107 as to appeal by indorsement), and will include a brief signed statement of the reasons for regarding the punishment as unjust or disproportionate. The immediate commanding officer of the accused will when necessary include with the appeal a copy of the record (see 109) in the case .***-*«
(M.C.M., 1928, par.108, pg.105).
Captain Archer wholly failed to notify accused that disciplinary action under AW 104 was contemplated, before such action was taken. The evidence is clear that he ordered accused "to push the roller" for a specified period of time and also to "walk full pack" for an additional period. The order was explicit in this regard. Capt. Archer was also very careful, according to his testimony, to read AW 64 to accused, but remained silent as to the requirements of AW 104. Further, after having imposed the punishment on accused he failed to notify him of his right to appeal to superior authority if he believed the punishment was unjust. Accused was wholly ignorant of his rights under AW 104 (R.32) as his testimony clearly shows:
"Questions by defense:
Q. While Captain Archer was talking to you, did he offer you the choice of a court-martial rather than accepting company punishment?
A. He did not, sir, he said I would not get it.
Q. Did he say anything about what you might do if you thought the punishment he was giving you was unjust?
A. No, sir, he didn't."
236447
- 21 -
- ■	•	-iv	i	u'iL
110
(136)
"Questions by law member:
Q. Do you know what to do in the case you think punishment is unjust? What is the procedure in case punishment is given to you that you believe unfair or unjust?
A. Go ahead and do it and report it afterwards,
I believe, sir." (R.32)*
The requirements of AW 104 as expounded by the Manual for Courts-Martial quoted above that the accused (a) be given the opportunity to demand trial by court-martial before imposition of punishment, and (b) be informed of his right to appeal to superior authority if he believes the punishment imposed is unjust, are mandatory, and the failure of the officer imposing the punishment to notify the accused of his rights nullifies the order of punishment and renders it illegal. (JAG. 250.3 - Jan 6, 1926, Dig. Ops. JAG. 1912-40, sec.462 (5), pg.370). The order "to push the roller" was therefore for this additional reason an illegal order and accused was under no duty to obey the same; and the Board of Review is of the opinion, on this further ground, that the record if legally insufficient to sustain the finding of guilty.
7.	In addition to the foregoing the record reveals a situation, which in the opinion of the Board of Review, deserves comment. The accused was subjected to confinement for a period of four days on a bread and water diet in the "dungeon" at Halogoland. It appears that this incarceration was arranged and executed by Major Low and Capt. Archer. The period of confinement evidently was to be determined at the whim, caprice, or personal discretion of Major Low. Such punishment, for confinement of such nature must be so considered, is not authorized under AW 104, and is in fact prohibited by the Articles of War. Even a court-martial cannot impose such a sentence after trial and a finding of guilty (AW 41}
M.C.M., sec.102, pg.92). The only explanation offered for the imprisonment is that accused was "incorrigible", that is, "incorrigible" in the opinion of Capt. Archer. (Capt. Archer*s testimony is anything but frank; it is evasive and equivocal; it creates the strong impression that he was endeavouring to shield some one).
During the period of this confinement accused was carried on the company morning report "for duty", although it is admitted he was not for duty. No mention of the restraint was shown on the charge sheet until after the trial, when the Adjutant inserted it as "pending investigation", a conclusion contrary to the evidence of record. The accused escaped from the confinement, and no charges were preferred against him for such escape, although the charges of the instant case were preferred two days after the escape. The reason for such failure to make mention of breaking confinement i3 obvious. This confinement was illegal.
236447
110
(137)
lAL
In this connection it is interesting to note that the accused testified:
"When I broke out it was one afternoon, I’d say at about quarter to 2:00 — I believe that was on a Saturday afternoon, I went to Colonel Whitcomb and told him the story. He told me that was the best thing I could have done, to break out. He told me that Captain Archer had no authority to put a man on bread and water unless with a signature of the commanding general,****. After that Colonel Whitcomb turned me over to Colonel Green, the provost marshal. I stayed down there from 10:30 that morning until 12 o'clock. Then Captain Archer called up and had us brought back to the company". (R.29)
No attempt was made to contradict or explain this testimony. In his review the staff judge advocate makes the following comment:
"The accused testified that after his escape from confinement he reported his escape to Colonel Whitcomb and that this officer encouraged the a£cuggdn^n his course of conduct. If this/is true. Colonel Whitcomb is guilty of a serious indiscretion which will have far reaching deleterious effect upon the discipline of the command of which the accused was a member".
Apparently with the means available to determine the truth about this entire affair, the better practice would have been to have done so, so that criticism could be made where criticism was due. While it may be that Colonel Whitoomb could have handled the situation in a better manner, it is indicated that he took proper steps to place the accused where his discipline could be effected legally. So far as this record is concerned, if censure is due it would seem to be for the conduct of Major Low and Captain Archer.
8.	In view of the errors pointed out above the question as to whether the plea in bar should have been sustained is not heie considered, the Board of Review being of the opinion that it should reserve for future consideration in a proper case the determination as to whether illegal and unauthorized punishment may be pleaded in bar of trial.
Under the British law such a plea will bar trial regardless of the seriousness of the offense. (Manual of Military Law, 1929, sec.36, chap. IV, pg*.A0). The question does not appear to have been passed upon in our practice since the enactment of AW 10A. Prior to that time our practice appears to have been contrary to the British holdings. (Winthrop Military Law and Precedents (2d Ed. - reprint 1920) sec.All, pg.274). Suffice it here to say that the imposition
23644*.	110
'.'"YiiUtNTlAL
of illegal punishment in any case seriously offends American sense of justice and cannot help but be deleterious to proper discipline*
9.	For the reason stated above the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial in this case is legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence.
110
r
- 71 -
1st Ind
I o JAN 1343
(139)
WAR DEPARTMENT, Office of the Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, APO 871, U.S. Army.
TO:	Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, APO 887,
U.S. Amy.
1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of ’War
as amended by the act of August 20, 1937 (Pub. No.325, 75th Cong.), and as further amended by act of August 1, 19l|2, (Pub. Law No.693, 77th Cong.) is the record of trial in the case of Private Morris L. Bartlett (699I4J4.76), Company B, 392nd Port Battalion, Transportation Corps, together with the foregoing opinion of the Board of Review.
2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review that the record of trial in this case is legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. In my opinion the record clearly shows that the original order to "push the roller" given by a non-commissioned officer, pursuant to instructions of the company commander, was for punishment, and the subsequent order of the company commander, given after the refusal of accused to obey the non-commissioned officer, was of the same character and given for the same purpose, therefore, tainted with the same illegality, since admittedly in neither case was there any attempt made to comply with AW 10U.
As to the illegality of the order on the ground that it was given for the purpose of increasing the punishment, there is, of course, no intention even to intimate that the mere fact that a commissioned officer repeats an order to a soldier, which order the soldier had previously refused to obey when given by a non-commissioned officer, is sufficient to establish such purpose. Obviously such is not the case in the great majority of instances. It is equally obvious that when such a purpose does exist the officer concerned rarely will admit it and thereby admit giving an illegal order. The purpose is determined by a sensible consideration of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the evidence. Important among these, the evasiveness, equivocation, and lack of frankness of the officer often are indicative of his real purpose. Such, in my opinion, is this case.
The entire record reflects a rather deplorable example of maladmin-stration of military discipline. I fully appreciate the need for a very high standard of discipline and of the difficulties of maintaining such a standard under existing conditions. I conceive it to be my duty to see to it that court-martial reviews in this theater be of such character as to furnish no interference with but to the contrary be helpful in the maintenance of a rigid but proper discipline. Beyond this we cannot and should not go. The rights of the individual, rights for which this war is being waged, must be considered, must be preserved. Discipline itself demands such action. That discipline is harsh is not the test. Often it must be, but that it is administered fairly, justly, legally is our concern. It should be the concern of every officer. This case does not meet that test. Accordingly I recommend that the findings and sentence be vacated, and ■
110
(UO)
that all rights, privileges and property of which accused has been deprived by virtue of said sentence be restored.
3.	Inclosed is a form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinabove made should-it meet your approval.
(ETO 110).
3 Inclsi
Incl, 1 - Record of Trial
Incl, 2 - Opinion of Board of Review
Incl. 3 - Form of Action
(Findings and sentence vacated by order of the Theater Commander -see letter Hq. ETO, 11 Mar 1943 (ref. AG 250.4 EJA))
Bi-xgaoier ueneraj.,
Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations
2
110
#(141)
