#(121)
Branch Office of The Judge-Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1226
UNITE-D STATES )
)
•	)
)
Private JOHNNIE (NMI) MUIR	)
(20504412), 569th Bombard-	)
ment Squadron (H), 390th	'>	. )
Bombardment Group (H)J	)
)
)
13 MAR 1944
VIII BOMBER COMMAND.
. Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station I39, APO 634 10 November 1943* Sentencet Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for two years. The 2912th Disciplinary Training Center,. APO
* 50B, U.S. Army.
OPINION -by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1* The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the * European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence in part. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.
2, Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification!
. CHARGEj Violation of the 75th Article of War.	;
Specification! In that Private JOHNNIE (HU) MUIR,
569th Bombardment Squadron (-H), 390th Bombardment Group (H), did, at AAF Station 153*-APO 634, on or about 27 September 1943* misbehave himself before the enemy, by refusing to accompany and fly with his crew, which had been ordered by Major ROBERT M. TUTTLE,
Commanding Officer, 569th Bombardment Squadron,
390tn Bombardment Group (H), of which said crew formed a part, to fly in a bomber and execute a combat operational mission over territory occupied by the enemy in Europe. 1
1
(122)
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charg^ and Specification* No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to he dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor for two years at such place as the reviewing authority may direct. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, ordered its execution but suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the . soldier's release from confinement and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 5^8» United States Army, as the place of confinement*
i	t
The proceedings were published in General Court-Martial Orders No* 107. Headquarters VTII Bomber Command, APO 634, 28 December 1943*
i
3* The evidence for the prosecution summarizes as followst
Major Robert M. Tuttle, commander of 569th Bombardment Squadron, 390th Bombardment Group (Heavy) testified!
Accused was on and prior to 2? September 1943 assistant engineer and waist gunner of a heavy bomber crew*- prior to the events involved in the instant charge he was on a mission to Regensburg Germany. When completed the crew flew to Africa instead of returning to their home base,
En route the 'plane was "ditched" in the Mediterranean. * When it sank the members of the crew lost all of their equipment* They spent some 20 hours in a dinghy and were picked up and taken to Africa. After elapse of a month they returned to their base without flying equipment* They had been on about ten raids prior to the one involved herein. There had been three raids since their return, two of which were completed (Rll,12)* Accused had been on five raids prior to 27 September 1943* one being on 26 September 1943 (R6,12), He and the crew of his 'plane knew they were alerted . for a mission for the following day, 27 September 1943, when they landed oh the night of 26 September 1943 (R6»7)*	•
Usually a 'plane crew is put on the alert on the evening preceding a mission* At that time the squadron commanders report to group operations and acting jointly specify the ships which are to participate in the mission on the following day and designate the crews, making: my crew substitution necessary. The orderly room is informed as to-the/selected for the mission, the time to awaken them, the time they will eat breakfast and the time of briefing. When there is no alert for a mission a white-flag is displayed} when "on the standby", a red flag is flown and when on an alert and a mission has been called, a green flag appears over the orderly room (R7). The men do not know they are going on a mission till given orders in the early morning. Late alterations and substitutions are often made (R14). It is occasionally necessery to make substitutions in the crews (RIO) and substitutes are available (Rll).
Gloves and shoes operate on the same electric circuit and if one fails the other will not. function (R12). The equipment in the squadron on
(123)
27 September was bad.:	There was e shortage of the new type oxygen masks
and heated equipment could not be obtained (RIO). "It was more or less a proposition of begging and borrowing from other men" (R9)» Efforts were made without success to get proper equipment (Rl3).
This squadron was ordered to furnish six 'planes and ultimately furnished five because accused's 'plane. Lieutenant Raymond A. Becker, pilot, failed to join the mission (R9).
Twenty-one 'planes were ordered from accused's Group and 20 were dispatched with two spares - a'total of 22 ships (R16). This flight was to be at about 25,000 feet. Oxygen masks are usually worn at 10,000 feet altitude. There is danger from an’improperly fitting mask and without heated gloves one cannot fire the guns because of the cold (R17).
Accused's crew was awakened at 2»30 a.m. Briefing was at 3:30 a.m. The "take-off" time was set at 6:30 a.m. 'It was not until roll call at briefing about 4:3° a«m« that the squadron commander knew accused and Sergeant Shermeyer were missing. He then went to the bomber and talked with Sergeant Hahn, the engineer and top turret gunner of the crew. Hahn s'tated that accused and Shermeyer were "getting up" and would be present (R10).
At 7»00 a.m. accused,and Shermeyer appeared at the office of the squadron commander. Accused was questioned as to' his reason for absenting himself from the mission. He stated he did not have the proper clothing.1 Chiefly there were missing heated gloves and mask (R8,18).* He complained that his gloves had failed to function on the previous day (R8). The -squadron commander took "action against" accused and Shermeyer by reducing each of
them from staff sergeant to private (R12).	>	i
, * >
First lieutenant Raymond A. Becker, 5^9^ Bombardment Squadron, first pilot of accused's crew, testified that on 26 September the crew flew on its mission at approximately 26,000 feet elevation (R19). The temperature registered more than 40 degrees below zero centigrade (R21). This altitude was held for two and one half hours. There were complaints about the equipment in general. Most of it had been borrowed. The plane did not engage in a mission on 27 September because two members of the crew were missing (R19).	A jeep was sent for them. The "tower" was requested to
check on tnem.	Then a truck was sent for them but too much time had elapsed
to: permit’ the bomber to join its Group which had departed. He had obtained heated gloves for accused and had them at the 'plane (R21) but had not informed accused they were there dr that‘be could use them (R23). Accused was a crew member in the United States. He was most reliable and had done his work exceptionally well on the Regensburg raid (R21).
Staff Sergeant Roy N, Ball, 5^9th Bombardment Squadron, was a waist gunner in the same crew and 'plane as accused. He testified that a maxi mum of heated equipment is necessary for the waist,gunner. If fighter "opposition is met it is necessary to have one's hands properly heated to"man the gun (R27). He first learned that his crew was going on a mission on 27 September when he was called at 2:30 a.m. on that day. Accused slept in the
- 3 -
(124)
same barracks, was awake and stated at that time to Ball "that he was not goiDg to fly till he got some heated gloves". On the previous day accused had said to witness "that his boots or gloves would not work" (R26-27),
Ball knew nothing about an extra pair of gloves being"on the 'plane. When accused said he would not fly>t his statement was not taken seriously as it was expected he would be on hand (R29).
Joseph A, Demmarle, corporal, 5(>9tk Bombardment Squadron, stated that he was in charge of quarters the morning of 27 September 1943* He awakened the combat crews about 2j30 a.m,, turned on the lights and informed them as to the time of briefing and also the breakfast hour (R30), About 7«00 a.m, he was sent down to the barracks to notify Sergeant Shermeyer and accused to report to Major Tuttle's office (R31).
Staff Sergeant Herman K. Black, 569th Bombardment Squadron, testified he was a member of "the ground crew on the morning of 27th September.
At approximately 3 or 4 o'clock, while in barracks, he heard accused say to Sergeant Ball in effect that he did not want to fly until he had sufficient flying equipment and that the day before it had been "too cold to stand it"
(R33)*
w	t	»
Technical Sergeant John W, Parker, 569th Bombardment Squadron was chief of the ground crew which serviced Lieutenant Becker's 'plane. He declared that on the morning of 27 September when the 'plane was ready to go, Sergeant Shermeyer and accused were missing. At hbout 6«00 a.m. Parker was sent in a truck to obtain their presence (R34% Accused was in his barracks standing by his bed. * When Parker said to him, "Come on*, let's go" he answered that he was not going to fly. He told accused that "Lieutenant Becker and Major Tuttle are both out there waiting for you". At that time the other 'planes were gone, Parker further testified that he knew Lieutenant Becker's crew had been having trouble in securing flying equipment. Accused had stated to witness oh the previous day that if there had been any opposition on the raid of 26 September his hands were so cold that he would not have been able to shoot the guns (R35)* On the morning accused did not appear, other men volunteered to replace him but* there were no volunteers for the position of ball turret gunner (R36),
First Lieutenant Robert W. Stuart of the same unit as accused testified that on*27 September the condition of the heated equipment of the men in general was rather poor. Supplies were depleted and difficult to obtain. He had loaned accused used equipment. The' suit and shoe3 were in ' working order but the gloves were not (R37). As far as he knew the gloves had not since been checked (R38),
.	t	I
It was stipulated that if Technical Sergeant. Clinton E. Hahn,
569th Bombardment Group, were present in court (R46)he would testify in substance that he was a member of the bombardment crew of Which accused was a member on 26-27 September 1943J that upon return from a mis*sion on 26 September the crew knew it had been alerted for a mission on the morning of 27 September. About 2*130 a.m. on 27 September. Charge of Quarters awakened the
- 4 -
(125)
crew. All men went to breakfast except accused. At briefing, accused and Staff Sergeant Shermeyer were missing. Major Tuttle asked for them. Witness told him the men would be in the 'plane ready to fly and sent Sergeant Ball to secure the missing men. They did not appear and the pilot upon being informed of their absence called the "tower*. The 'plane did not "take off*. When witness went on mission of 26 September he borrowed clothing and equipment from other crew3.
All crew members complained about the clothing on the 26 September mission. Accused was waist gunner on this mission and he needed more clothing than any other crew-member - especially heated equipment. He bad borrowed the heated equipment he used. Since the Regensburg raid fcne crew has been borrowing clothing. When a green flag is flying the crew knows it is scheduled for a mission and it goes to barracks for sleep. In the morning it is awakened by Charge of Quarters who informs it as to time of breakfast and briefing. At briefing the crew receives its orders and is notified as to time of departure and target.
A stipulation was entered into between the prosecution and the accused in substance* (1) that the 569th Bombardment Squadron (H)< is a unit of the 3<)Cth Bombardment Group (H) 5 the 390th Bombardment Group is a part of the 13th Wing of the 3rd Bombardment Division and on 27 September 1943 these units were part of the Eighth Air Force, based in the United Kingdom and engaged in heavy bombardment operations against enemies of tne United States.' (2) Thar they were ordered by proper authority to' perform on 27 September 1943 a tactical combat bombing mission against installations at Emden, Germany. (3) That the 390th Bombardment Group (H) was ordered to supply 21 aircraft and crews for this mission of which tne 569 th Bombardment Squadron (H) was ordered to supply six. (4) Aircraft of the 390th Bombardment Group (H) including five aircraft from the 569th Bombardment Squadron (H) executed tne mission.
(5) That Emden, Germany is and was on 27 September 1943* ia territory occupied by enemies of the United States (R40).
4.	The defense produced two witnesses (Technical Sergeant Merle Houck and Staff Sergeant Enrique Perez) who slept in the same barracks with accused. Each testified that on the morning of 27 September when called by the Charge of Qiarters each heard the accused say he was not going to fly because he did not have proper equipment (R41-42). The defense also produced several witnesses (Second Lieutenant William F. Burke, Second Lieutenant David Von Schlegell, First Sergeant Frank L. Gerchman, all of the 569th ’Bombardment Squadron (Heavy)), who testified that accused performed his combat duties well and-would again make a good member of a combat crew (R43“47)•
Private Earl R.-Shermeyer-(formerly staff sergeant) stated in detail the events of the morning of 27 September 1943 as they affected him and accused, being substantially the same story as told by prior witnesses (R47-51)* He was confused by the messengers sent to the barracks. One sdid, "stay there", and the other said, "come up". He did not know which to believe. • He remained'in the barracks (R52).
N -5
(126)
Captain William-F. Pennybacker, operations officer with the 569th Squadron, assistant group'operations officer and in the past, equipment officer,1 stated that the squadron had been unable to secure replacement equipment. The squadron had three crews "ditched" and for the 30 men about six suits of heated clothes had been obtained.
They were all size 40 for large men. In his knowledge there were none for Lieutenant Becker's crew. _The official record shows that 24 ships were escheduled to "take off" on the 27th and that 23 "took off".
Lieutenant Becker's ship did not "take off" (R54)« Three ships listed as "spares to.ok off" (R55)•
‘	i	x
Accused, as a witness, declared that when he awakened from-sleep on the morning of the 27th September, most members of his crew were arising. They said the crew was on the alert to go. Accused did not leave his bed but made the statement that
■I would fly if I knew I had flying clothes that would work but as I had not I would not",
*
He returned tha day before from a mission around 7*3° or 8:00 p.m.- and by the time the 'plane was parked it was dark. On that mission his heated clothes did not work. It was approximately "40 below" on that mission. No fighter opposition was seen. With the temperature 40° -below zero the operation of gun3 with use of ordinary gloves is impossible (R57)» Accused has been on five combat missions. On the missions since his return from Africa, his experiences had been very unpleasant.
He had some electrically heated equipment which would not work and a gas mask which would not fit. Lieutenant Becker had sent over to the Air Force Supply and obtained some equipment for the crew. It had all_ been picked over and anything of any use taken before he could equip himself. After accused had been awakened by Charge of Quarters, Sergeant Ball came into the barracks. Accused told him he would fly if given flying equipment (R58). The next person who arrived was a sergeant from tfajor Tuttle's office who informed him that Major Tuttle was .coming to the barracks. Accused dressed and waited-for him. Then Sergeant Parker came in and stated that Lieutenant Becker and Major Tuttle were out at the ship and that a truck was available to accused for transportation. Charge of Quarters then appeared and instructed witness and Shermeyer to go to Major Tuttle's office which they did. Three days later accused was ■broken" to a private (R59)» Accused desired to continue combat flying and had never suggested to anyone that he wanted to go off flying status (R6o). He did not go out to the 'plane to see if the equipment was there for he had been out three other times and there was no equipment. . He did not know for sure whether or not there was equipment for that morning, but there was no equipment in the 'plane when he left it tne previous evening nor had any been delivered to him prior to nine o'clock the night previous (R63). <
- 6 -
(127)
5.	On being recalled by the court, Major Tuttle stated the usual procedure applicable to non-commissioned personnel of combat crews was for them to report at briefing their inability to depart on a mission. There was no order to that effect nor were there any other methods of-giving notice (R63).
6.	Winthrop comments on the history of the 42nd Article of War of the Code of 187A, a partial predecessor to the present 75th Article of War:
"The originals of this and the next Article may be traced in Arts. 9 and 13 of Sec. Ill of Charles I, Arts.22,
23	and 24 of James II, and in various provisions of the Code of Gustavus Adolphus, especially in the Arts, numbered 55,56,62,64,73,79,89,92,93 and 94. The offence of pillaging is denounced in the still earlier Art. 7 of Richard II.
The present Article is Art. 52 of the Code of 1806 expressed in improved English. The existing form is more general than that Of 1775, which provided for the punishment of the offences described only when committed 1 in time of’an engagement;' and, as respects the offence of'leaving post, &c., to plunder and pillage,’ is also more general than the form of 1776,	,
which made this act punishable only ’after victory,'"(Winthrop1s Military Law and Precedents - Reprint p.622).
Articles 41 and 42 of the Code of 1874 provided:
"Art.41.- Any officer who, by any means • ' whatsoever, occasions false alarms in camp, garrison, or quarters, shall suffer death, or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.
Art.42.- Any officer or soldier who misbehaves himself before the enemy, runs away, or shamefully abandons any fort, post, or guard, which he is commanded to defend, or speaks words inducing others to do the like, or casts away his arms or ammunition, or quits his post or colors to plunder or pillage, shall suffer death, or such other punishment as a court-martial may. direct". ■
In the 1916 code, a single article designated Article of War 75 was substituted for Articles 41 and 42 of the Code of 1874. (See statement of Brigadier General Enoch H.- Crowder, The Judge Advocate
- 7 -
(128)
General before the sub-committee of the Committee on Military Affairs of United States Senate 9 February 1916, Senate Calendar 122, Report No 130, 64th Cong.,.1st Sess. at p.78). In the 1916 revision the article appeared in the following form:
"Any officer or soldier who misbehaves himself before the enemy, runs away, or shamefully abandons or delivers up any fort, post, camp, guard or other command, which it is his -duty to defend or speaks words inducing others to do the like, or casts away his arms or ammunition, or quits his post or colors to plunder or pillage, or by any means whatsoever occasions false alarms in' \ camp, garrison, or quarters, shall suffer . death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct."
The 1920 amendments to the Code of 1916 produced the 75th Article of War in its present form*
"Any officer or soldier who, before the enemy, misbehaves himself, runs away, or shamefully abandons or delivers up or by any misconduct, disobedience, or neglect endangers the safety of any fort, post, camp, guard, or other command which it is his duty to defend, or speaks words inducing others to do the like, or casts away his arms or ammunition, or quits his post or colors to plunder or .pillage, or by any means whatsoever occasions false alarms in camp, garrison or quarters, shall suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct." (Underscoring supplied).
The 1920 amendment transposed the phrase "before the eneiiy" to the position following the pronoun "who" in order to remove all doubt as to its qualifying affect upon the remainder-of the article. There was also interpolated the clause "or by any misconduct, disobedience, or neglect endangers the safety of" following the verb phrase "abandons or delivers up".
* The idea may be advanced arguendo that the 75th Article of War is inapplicable to the Army Air Corps. Such argument is based on the history of the Article which definitely indicates that it is premised on the classical pattern of land warfare which does not include the aerial combat - a strictly modern development. As a corollary to this proposition it may be contended that at the time of the enactment of the 75th Article of War in 1916 and also at the time it was reenacted in its
- 8 -
(129)
amended form in 1920 Congress did not contemplate the conditions and situations arising as a result of modern aerial warfare and that it envisioned warfare on land fought only by land forces when it gave its legislative approval to the Article.
Certain well established rules of statutory construction are applicable in the consideration of the problem thus presented:
(a)	- The intention of Congress must primarily be discovered from the language of the statute itself.
"Nothing is better settled than that, in the construction of a law, its meaning must first be sought in the language employed. If that be plain, it is the duty of the courts to enforce the law as written, provided it he within the constitutional authority of the legislature which passed it"
(United States v. Standard Brewery,
251 US. 210, 64 L.Ed.229,234)«
"The primary and general rule of statutory construction is that the intent of the lawmaker is to be found in the language that he has used. He is presumed to know the meaning of "words and the rules of grammar. The courts have no function of legislation, and simply seek to ascertain the will of the legislator. It is true there are cases in which the letter of the statute is not deemed controlling, but the cases are few and exceptional, and only arise when there are cogent reasons for believing that the letter does not fully and accurately disclose the intent. No mere omission, no mere failure to provide for contingencies, which it may seem wise to have specifically provided for, justify any judicial addition to the language of the statute." (United States v. Goldenberg 168 US.95* 42 L.Ed#
394,398). .	1
(b)	- The history of the statute may be considered in construing and interpreting it (United States v. Raynor, 302 US.540,82 L.Ed.413; United States v. Morrow 266 US.531,69 L.Ed.425)
(c)	- In particular it will be noted that the 75th Article of War is part of the Act of June 4, 1920 (41 Stat.759,803) which designates the Air Corps'(formerly Air ServicS) as part of the Regular Military
(130)
establishment. The two legislative directions - one denouncing certain acts as a military offense and the other creating the Army of the United States - are' contained in one legislative enactment*
‘"And it is well settled"thkt, in interpreting a statute, the court will not look merely to a particular clause in which general words may be used, but will take in connection with it the whole statute (or statutes on the same * subject) and the objects and policy of the law, as indicated by its various provisions, and give to it such a construction as will carry into execution the will of the Legislature, as thus ascertained, according to its' true intent and meaning."(Brown v. Duchesne,
19 Howard 183, 15 L.Ed. 595,599) (See also Helvering v. New York Trust Company 292 U.S. A55,A6A, 78 L.Ed.1361,
1366).
The Air Service is a component of the Regular Amy of the United States - not a separate organization nor department of Government (Act of 3 June 1916, 39 Stat 166; Act of A June 1920, 41 Stat 759; 10 USC At Military Laws of the United States, 1939, Sec.6, p.26). By the Act of 2 July 1926 (44 Stat 780; Military Laws- of the United States, 1939, Sec.30, p.37) the "Air Service" was designated as the "Air Corps".
The 75th Article of War is general in its application to the military personnel. It applies to "any officer or soldier".
"All officers * * * and soldiers belonging to the Regular Army of the United States * * * and all other persons lawfully called, drafted or ordered into, or to duty or for training in, the said service"
are subject to the Articles of War (AW 2).
There is no distinction on the face of the Article between the separate arms and services - all are part of the Army.	Notwith-
standing the fact that they must adopt different methods and means in the performance of their respective functions they remain part and parcel of the American military organization.
The Board of Review therefore believes that the rules of statutory construction hereinbefore set forth when applied in connection with the history of the 75th Article of War require the conclusion that the Article governs the conduct of the personnel of the Army Air Corps.
10.
(131)
7.	Of primary importance is the questions Was accused, at the time he refused to fly on combat mission over enemy occupied territory in Europe, "before the enemy" within the purview of.the 75th Article of War? If this question is answered in the negative the prosecution's case must fail in its entirety as the acts of omission and commission which are denounced as military offenses by the article must be committed "before the enemy" (CM 125263 (1919) Wachsman. CM 131873 (1919), CM 1296H (1919), Dig.Op. JAG 1912-1940, sec.433 (l) p.303; CM France, QAJAG, 201-598, 12 December 1918 Robstock).
"It is not necessary, however, that the enemy should be in sight. If he is -confronting the army or in its neighbourhood, though separated from it by a considerable distance, and the service, upon which the party is engaged, or which he is especially ordered or properly required by his military obligation to perform, be one directed against the enemy, or resorted to in view of his movements, the misbehaviour committed will be 'before the enemy' in the sense of the Article" (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents, 1920 Reprint, pp.623-624).
"The words 'before the enemy' imply contact with the enemy. It is not a question of distance, but rather of tactical relation. Actual contact with the enemy is not necessary. It is sufficient if the organization with which accused was serving at the time was so situated, either in the front lines or in reserve, as to indicate its involvement in an impending combat" (Tillotson, Articles of War Annotated, p.165; CM 128019 (1919),
Dig.Op.JAG 1912-1940, sec.433 (2),p.304).
"Actual engagement with the enemy at the time of the commission of the offense is not an essential prerequisite to conviction under A.W.75, so long as there was a real 'contact with the eneng' as the term is reasonably used"(CM 126528 (1919), Dig.
Op.JAG 1912-1940, sec.433 (2), p.304).
The foregoing dissertations with respect to the meaning of the phrase "before the enemy" as used in the 75th Article of War can have only-general application to the problem arising in the instant case.
-11-
(132)
Manifestly they were written prior to the advent of modern aerial warfare. Literally they encompass combat activities on land and it is only by implication and inference they become pertinent to present consideration.
The evidence without contradiction shows that at AAF Station 153, accused's bomber crew was alerted on the evening of 26 September for combat flight over enemy territory early next morning; • that the members thereof, including accused, knew upon retirement for sleep that evening that they were on such status; that about 2:30 a.m. 27 September the crew was called for breakfast and briefing; and that accused although awakened and informed that he was ordered to breakfast and briefing refused to obey the order for the reason that he was not properly equipped with heated gloves. It is also clearly proved that as part of the process of briefing accused-was ordered by proper authority to join .the tactical bombing mission on 27 September against installations at Emden, Germany, which is in an enemy country and that he refused to obey the order. The map shows that Emden is approximately 250 miles on a direct flying route from the nearest shore line of the United Kingdom. The location of AAF Station 153 within the United Kingdom is not disclosed by the record of trial. There is no evidence that there was any enemy action by air or otherwise directed at accused's station or any other installation or location within the United Kingdom on 26-27 September
1943.
I	*
In attempting to analyze the status, under the 75th Article of War, of personnel of the United States Air Force now stationed in the United Kingdom, who are engaged in combat missions over- Germany and the enemy occupied countries of Europe, two extreme situations appear. The first is presented by the picture of a, bomber which has flown to the confines of enemy territory and is the object of attack by enemy aircraft and enemy anti-aircraft from the ground. There are none who will, deny that in such situation a bomber crew is "before the enemy". At the opposite pole is a bomber crew which may or may not have been engaged in combat with the enemy but which at the relevant time i3 in barracks at an air-field. It has not been alerted nor placed under orders to perform a mission and the crews are not required to remain at their station. Such situation also assumes that enemy aircraft, are not in immediate proximity. There appears to be no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that under such situation a bomber crew is not "before the enemy". Within these two extremes, delicate and complicated problems•arise in defining the phrase "before the enemy" - problems produced by the great variety of conditions and circumstances under which aerial warfare is presently being conducted by the United States Army Air Force based on -the British Isles. Under _ such circumstances it appears to be highly inadvisable to formalize for general application in such operations a definition of the phrase "before the enemy". While past experiences and practices may suggest a fairly substantial basis upon which to construct a formula, there is no assurance that revolutionary changes may not occur, which would render a fixed and positive declaration difficult to apply or embarrassing to explain. An open-minded analysis of the problem compels the conclusion that any attempt
-12
(133)
to state an overall definition of the phrase when-applied to the air forces would serve to obscure rather than illuminate the subject.
Notwithstanding the difficulties and circumstances which argue against the announcing of a dogmatic fornula or definition it is most desirable to discover a safe and reasonable standard of measuring an accused's status under the article.' ,The Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928 declares:
"Whether a person is 'before the enemy' is not a question of definite distance, , but one of tactical relation" (par.Lila, p.156).
Such statement possesses the merit of being specific and positive in its declaration of a legal principle without being inflexible in its application, It is therefore a particularly practical and helpful guide.in the instant case.
At the time accused refused to obey the positive order to accompany his crew on its bombing mission the crew and it3 bomber waited at its base station ready to "take off". Other bombers of the squadron had departed on the mission. Accused's and Shermeyer's deriliction prevented the crew from joining in the assault upon enemy territory. A realistic and rational analysis of these facts compels the conclusion that at the time of accused’s malfeasance he and his crew were in the course of preparation and had not entered the tactical situation where they were "in the face or presence of the enemy". Accused's disobedience must not be confused with his tactical status when he disobeyed. His refusal to obey was something separate and apart from his tactical position. His disobedience was partially responsible for the inability of his crew to participate in the mission, but this consequence did not advance accused from a preparatory status to that of actual combat with the enemy.
It is unnecessary for the decision in this case to consider when and under what conditions or circumstances the crew would be no longer in a preparatory status but would have passed to that of being tactically "before the enemy". Neither is it necessary to consider the result ifihe station of accused's squadron or his squadron had been under actual attack by the enemy. Such situation did not obtain in the case. It suffices for present purposes to conclude that a bomber crew, based on an air-field in the United Kingdom, although alerted and under orders to perform a designated mission is not "before the enemy" when it has not departed from its base, and is not the immediate object of attack by the enemy.
From the foregoing it follows that accused was not before the enemy when he disobeyed the order"to fly * * * and execute a combat mission". Therefore the prosecution failed to establish a fundamental premise of its
C&S60
-13-
(134)
8,	For the reasons hereinbefore stated the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is not legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
(SICK IN HOSPITAL) ____________judge	Advocate
-14-
1st Ind
Toi Commanding
(135)
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. J 3	J944
General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S.Army*
1* Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 5°1 as amended by Act of 20 August 1937 (50 Stat,724i 10 U.S.C. 1522) and as further amended by Act of 1 August 1942 (5^ Stat,732j 10 U.S.C. 1522), is the record of trial in the case of Private JOHNNIE (NMI) MUIR(20504412) 5&9tn Bombardment Squadron (H), 390tbl Bombardment Group (H),
2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and for the
reasons stated therein recommend that the findings of guilty and the sentence be vacated and that all rights, privileges and property of which accused may have been deprived by reason - of such findings and sentence, so vacated, be restored,	’
3.	Inclosed is a form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is a draft GCMO for use in promulgating the proposed action, Please return the record of trial with the
3	Indsi 1 Incl.l*
■ In cl ,2*
Incl«3* Draft of GCUD 1
1 1	—I'-	'	"'	‘
(Findings and sentence vacated. GCM0 18, ET0, 17 Uar 1944)

#(137)
