#(265)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General
with the European Theater of Operations A?0 871
board or ana no 99ft
3 0 DEC 1943
OIZTIO	8	TATIS
Scant smaux bmbubx	)
(6985599)* Berrios Battury,	)
50th field Artillery Battalion, )
I
5TH mTANTBI cm SICK
Trial by Q.C.M.* aonvenad at Tldeorth Garrison, England,
4 Ootober 1943* Santeneei Die-honorable discharge, suspended* total forfaltttfee end nonflw—it at hard labor for in yaars. 2912th Disciplinary Training Center* Shepton Ballet, Soanrsst, England.
lOLDin by the BOARD OP ETfJUa RITES, TAB HEKSCHOTEH and SAJUE3T, Judge Advocates
1.	The reoord of trial in the ease of the soldier naned above has ben eaoalned in the Branoh Of floe of The Judge Advocate General vlth the European Theater of Operations and there found legally Insrrfflelnt te support the findings and senteaM in port. Tbs reoord has no*.bean embed by the Board of Berlee which samite this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advooate General la ohargs of said Branoh Office.
2,	Aeousad was tried upon the fallowing dniys end spedfloatioosi
CHAhOt It Tloiatlon of the 93rd Article of «ur.
Speeifloatlont In that Sergeant Sherman Burkhart, Sarrloa Battery, fiftieth field Artillery Battalion, did, at or near Andover, Honpehlre, England, on or about 30 August 1943, vlth intent to eoanlt a felony* vis, rape, oomdt an assault and battery upon B. M. Itaggui, (resale, human being) by ad11fully and falonloualy attempting to have sexual intercourse mth bar forcibly and against bar sill.
CRAKE Hi Tlolatlen of ths 94th Artlolo of War.
Specif ioatleni * In that Sergeant Shaman Burkhart* rerrio* Battery, Fiftieth Field artillery Battalion, did* at TiArorth Barracks, failtahlre, England, on or abort 30 August 1943, knowingly and willfully nisapprojrlate and apply to his own use and benefit one no tar vehicle of the value la expose of $50.00, property of ths Qnited States, furnished and Intended for ths military aorrloe thereof.
•1-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
m jIt 111 Mi guilty teudiu found guilty of tte atergaa and up—ifioatlewo. Be arldno* of prevleu* •corloUooo waa lntrofaeod.
Bt aanteaood to bo 4UtowiMy diaohargsd tba wrrlo*, to forfeit oil pop and illwnam doe or to beooae due and to be oonflnad at bard loter at mah plaoo oo tbo rostering authority way direst tor ton yoerw. The reviewing authority approved tbo oeotonao bet suspended tbo oaoerrtlm of tbe dlchsnormblo dtooterge until tbo prisoner's nOeooo tron uoofino-aent end deal po tel 2912th Disatplimry Training Contar, Stepten ballot, Soooaroot, England, oo tbo pleoo of awfba—1»	•
Tbo remit of tbo idol ana pramlgatod la Seconal Court-Martial OrdaruBo. SO, Boadffmrtem 9th lafentry Dt-rUdo*, APO 5 dated 15 ter enter 1943* >
J. for tbe preoeeurtlee, Servant affinor (Junior grade) tetert L flu—erfelt, of eoaaeod'a battalion, teoUfled that aoeusod on 29 August 190 done o party of offleoro, lnoludlng tho eUaeoe, e* oo outwanbilo trip firaa tidnortb to Bath and re Ur*. Tbe party re tamed to Tidvorth at Olid hours. Aeoueod oao 1* 0J).'o with fcLauoo, eaarlni proper '"■'IT4* of ft*do and a braided garrlaca oap (M~5) •
riret Lieutenant Iaorerne V. Ioong tootlfiod tte^bo^eaejbeajpormiy
trip using a ooooaaad oar oo 29 insist 1943. Aoouoad oao tte driver.
Tbo trip oao ooagOoted at Tldocrth about 11«45 F>>> Bo instrusted tbo oooeood to taka tbo anooanil oar to tba wtor park. Bo did not gnat yoradoole* to take it olooobora. Tbo oar oaa oerth about 41200 ar 41300. Bltaaoo aoooopllehad the trip tlafeet ooaotloo after tbo Journey wee over (JT7-9). Bewailed by tbo oourt, ha tootlfiod that thoro bad boon ordora that a vehiale should not lesra onp without a trip tinted (143) • C* a subsequent daplloato trip aada for teat pnrpoaeo to Bath and rates* over tte ooae rout* tba ear's speodooetar road appnudoatoly 97 adloo.
Tte trip tlokot (ProsJEx.8) ahowo total aliases of 122 (B47). (Tbo rooerd contains no or! donee of tte dlrtanoo tetoeoa Andover and Tldoorth, bat aooarding to the Too Kilo Map of Great Britain, Military lull tie*, that dlotaaoo la about 10-12 alloo, o proper subject of judlolal notloo.)
LU.C.V. Eileen C. Uu^cen, Ocean's Auxiliary air Fora*, tootlfiod that ate left Andover railway ate tic* about too slants# peat 12*00 a* tba ai£it of 29-39)August 1943, for Andover Cuap otatlo*. fchile panose ortlng along tte road a* "Amy transport* a topped and ate spooled tba offer of a "lift." Tte vehlala, a alas larger than a Jeep, had aa da pro bat had a oover over tbs top (HlO-ll). Sha wao driven to o point about two hundred yards beyond Greggs' Corasr who* tba driver Infbrwad ter bo would not tab* ter farther. Continuing, tte ndLtnoa* tootlfiod*
■I mat to got out aad he pt held ef os and . want to klao a*. 1 was flnhborgiated. Z ' Jwat Oald l thought It was a ted ate# and X teat to got oat sad ho would**! lot no.
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(267)
**« be aanagad to get out of Ms driving mi sod stopped as fro* getting out of tbs osar. And fas aade son* muka to ns and I wsoat to raise ay roios sad than bs struok ay fieoe. And than 1 saowiged to kick st fain sod as I kicked at hla bs gpt out of tbs transport, and oeannhile I lost ay bat and I startsd earaaoing getting hywterioal.
I aanagad to grt out of tbs transport and bs want around to tbs front of tbs ear, and I got s bold of my ones and I grabbed for ay fast sad it happened to fas his bat I got it sad kept it |ust tbs seas* 1 ass sageasing neanahlle and I nctLoed there sara tarohee in the distance, and be got back into tbs driver's seat end drove the transport toeards * Red Poet Rldgt) that is at tbe and of tbs seep. And in tbs noantias tbe R.k.'i. Polios sane us to so.- (Ell-12).
8be identified a oap fay the Maher B-5559, as the sea belonging to the driver of the vehicle end it eas received in erldanoe as Pros.Ex.A (R12). On sarues evnrilmtion, she testified that whan the driver passed in front ef the headlights, which sore quite bright, he appeared to be without e hat (113). On —aalnatlos fay tbe eourt, she stated*
"As ha want to kiss as I objected very nueh. 1 still wanted to gat out of tha ear. Ha got in front of as. Ha got out of tbe aaat and barred tbe way for m to got out of tha
jmk
fi*Li	Utt*
£XJS«9tt&£Jte
with..Ma	itruok nr foot.
- m	vaia)	be	1st so aad 1
W&BMS&. MtfLA*. kilt Jfeifl teJSSl ftt*. 1i Tfo«a i. jg?t ,<n\ og.lfea tor*»
(Oader-souring supplied).
£394
Shs struggled with him because be was bolding her. Be struok her s savers hiss in tha faas with his fist, which shs thought definitely sea a da liberate one; its nark reaainad ffar about a saek. Further interrogation fay tbe eourt praaaedsd ae follows*
%.‘M Kill you tall ns bow ha was holding you.
Vfaat part of tha body ha had his hold)
A* It ay throat,sir, H» «ade reaarke toths
Ha m
->■
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
<4« Did h* put hi* hand on any part af your bod/J
A. TtU JasJLftl JtoaJLilJLJBMI 3aj1m
Thai is Aen 1 nt. raged to klek at hi
(IU.6) (Undar-scoring Supplied).
* * * * *
4. pifl	Itei-te.	fvwffl&rw&gi
A* Is*. (£16) (Uiuler scoring supplied).
Be hi wearing * ooat, but ah* did not noties hi* raak (K16). QH reurnsa ariiiilnatlqa, ah* would not mix h* was without * hat (X18)* On further examination by the court aba testified*
%• •** ggijBEijaasfaii .y*v iw jMtejjaa
i.
4.
a. io, 1 tad no dwl*^ l_hftd bq ftjefrt at all
*hat hi#. latonUcM were, y- Saa. tbAt belief bywa entirely vamJ&m
qaasal Jfe&i m Sauaa ttirt at aea BassQiaz flan
A. Weil, by hi* attitude. Hr his whole attltad*. v (R18) (Underscoring supplied) .
Ml** IXiggan dsslarsd she 1* fir* feet, firs and one-half lashes tall and weigh* nine stone, and that a stone is fourteen pounds (R19). The witness was recalled later in the trial as a witness far the court end indicated that the driver of the vehicle was wearing — olive dmb bln MW and not a field jacket. She did not resaober Aether or not he had chevrons on it (£19).
Corporal a. H. Evans, R.AJ’. Station Pellc*, Andover, testified that he knew aeeosed and had identified hie at Tidrorth at age idsntifl-sation parade (R38). About 12i23 an the naming of 30 August the witness end other 1UA.F. parsonnsl were on patrol on the sain xsap need end stopped a vehiele. Aooosed said a m«aaF* was in trouble m tep of the read and that ha would take thsa back there. Be turned around In the dispersal field bat did not step and went as fast as b* ooold wp tbs reed. This was near the sub-guard rooe on the snap road which goes through Andover to Awpert and Thruxtcn. Bitnesa saw accused about 500 parts trzm the sain Tidworth road. The patrol stopped the oar and sheas torch** (flash-lights) on It. Aooused was leaning over tbs wheel of the vehiele, which the witness thought was a Dodge truck, opes with a top* Me had three stripes and a *T" on his am, was wearing a field jacket and had nothing on hie head. (B20,22). glee Duggan, who sac later brought 1st* the Mab>guard seen, had a big burp on her head. She acted vary wpset, as sridenosd by crying (R2>26).
Corporal Lewis Aferchaas, sa.F. Statin* Police, Andover, testified that about 12*20 — the Bornli« of 30 Aegast, he was la charts ef the petrel "leading" fra* the eeln gucxdroa* to the sah-pnxd re—.
That .AH pflrww ni
or not?
CONFIDENTIAL
• CONFIDENTIAL
(269)
He wee with Corporal* £vuns and Sherlock and. heard people sho rting "•top hie* and they flashed their torches on the oar vhiah stopped at the dispersal point, about 153-2jo /ards froa Greggs' Garner, which is past the R.A.F. polios sub-guard roan. The sesassd ess driving. Abrahams ccnfirmed the substance of the testimony of Corporal Evans os to the words and actions of accused, the condition «f Kiss Duggan, and the Identification of accused at the parade at Tldvorth (R26-29). On oroaa-exaalnatlon, he testified that accused was wearing oergaant'e stripes, and as he thought, a "rocker" and a "I* underneath (1*30). Examined by the court, he thought accused bad on a field jacket (E31),
Corporal Basil Pearson, R.A.J. Station I dies, Andover, testified that he did not know accused, ffhlle in the sub-guard room witness heard a woman ecreas. He vest outside and ran towards the direction of the scream. A car was driven down the oaap road towards him and he heard a woman shout' "stop that car". Be tried to do it bat "the car..with a terrific speed went past". It then passed by him again despite his attempt to stop it. He identified the ear as a eoaoand car, open with a top. He saw Sties Duggan at 12*15 a.a. 30 August 1943 outside the sub-guard roam. She was in a very distressed condition, rather flushed and inclined to be hysterical, with quite a large busp on the left temple. She handed his an American soldier's hat with the number B-5559 Inside, which is Pros.EzJb. (The accused's krwy serial nuaber Is 6985559) (R32-34).
Captain James £. Couty, 5th Infantry Division, lailitary Police, testified that he knew accused and that on the morning after the incident, •ceased Identified the cap, FroeJhc*A, as his cm. Be acid "1 lost It last ni#t." (£36).
It was stipulated that the value of tbs coacisnd ear described mas well in excess of £50 (R37).
Private John H. Rediford, of accused's battery, declared he wee charge of quarters 29-30 August and as such eeds bed cheek that evening between 12 tX) and 12tl5, whioh did not disc lose any sheen teem.
Be knew accused who did not turn in his pass, bat he thought accused was in bed at 12ilo or 12tl5 (R50-51). Rediford admitted he did not See hie face but notleed what be believed were accused's feet pro jesting from under bed blankets (Fol-53). As a result of this adverse testimony, the prosecution recalled Kediford (E 85) end confronted him with FreeJbufi e trip ticket of a actor vehicle bearing date of "8-29-43"'which shows "Time out 1930" and "Time in 1930". On the reverse aide of the trip ticket the vehicle movement is stated act "Stooltan to aIIvsI to Hoeltsaf
-5-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
with a rilug of am silo firm Bool tan to Alival and farther reeltest "Vehicle raise—d et 179 (epeedoneter reading) Date 30 Aug 43 et 1920 fh’1 end been the denature of "Learenm V. Zoung let Lt FA", the witness testified that independent of the ticket he had — reocl-leetioa of this duty, but edeitted the genuineness of hie signature appearing on the first page thereof* He further testified he drove lieu tan—t Zoung to Alivel at 3 PM cm 29 August 1943 end upon returning at 5s30 PM (885,87) seen—d his duties as charge of quarters. Be asserted that the.ticket met be an error in stating the tine of the trip te be firm 7LFB^dS n4 S»ae not out of the barracks at said tina (836).
Private First Clasa Robert F. Coffal, of aoeused's battery, testified that he drove a truck m a recreation run to Salisbury end return m 29 August 1943* Be identified the ticket severing the trip (PresJEz.0) bearing his signature and which is dated 8*29.43 end shows "Ties In 00il5", at wlxiah Urn, ha testified, ha ees in his quarters. Dadlfard —a charge of quartern that night and witness sow hin la orderly rom, bat did not see him leave lt. If anyone had ooae in te —be bed eheok in hie quarters he would hove notloed him, but he did net actios anyone waking bed eheok that night (K54j57). The witness did not state that be and aooused lived in sane roan or quarter*.
4,	Par the defen—, Technician 5th Grade Arnold B. Cloacats of Battery C, 5Qth Field Artillery Battalion, testified that be had been in jja—bnry m night of 29-30 August 1943 end was picked up in tbs ▼chide driven by accused end was token to Tidwccrth Garrison. The motor oar end passengers arrived in the vicinity of the Serrioe Battery Orderly Bom of the 50th Field Artillery Battalion before 12iQ0 o'clock nidnl^ht. Chan he alighted be saw it drive off in the direction of the ns— hall or no tor perk (fi60). on crops aammlnat, 1 m, he testified that be arrived at his quarters before bed shook which is hold at 12 al&» night. So—one nede bed cheek that night (Jt.61).
Private Boyle T. Benson, Battery B, 50th Field Artillery Battalion, testified that he and Clemnte rode with accused firm A—chary te lid—rth Garrison, arriving in easy about seven minutes to 12i& eld* night. He too a— the oar depart ha toward the general —as hall which is in the direction of the —tor pool (B62-63) • Hanson ndeitted that the— —re other roads near that nan ball by whioh a vehicle might have left the poet instead of going to the —tor park (B&3).
Private Jessie Chaney, of amused* e battery, testified that an the night of 29-30 August nooused sene upstairs and asked if the— sas somebody —Iking around up there. The witness heard a noise so—where.
He eonrarsed with eeeuaad. On eroae —nwl nation, he testified that about five aiastes after he talked te accused be heard so—one ah* he thought —e the charge of quarters so— around but did not am bln (364-66). Adsueed —a —aring — OJD.ooat. After the eonver—tim accused —at bask downstairs sad aade a noise — if he —re going te bed (B67-66).
CONFIDENTIAL
(271)
CONFIDENTIAL
The accused, after his rights had bean explained to his, took the stand as a sworn witness. Aocordlng to his narrative of events, hs “guessed* bo rotor nod to Xidwcortb at about 23*40 hours with Captain Juntor, Lieutenant Young, Sr. ylsmorfelt, Ur. Lacy, Cleaents and Henson. After leaving his passengers la front of the Service flattery Orderly toon, hs pcroaaedsd to tbs no tor part share be parked the ooaaand oar. lie then vent* to his quarters, share he conversed with Privates Chaney and ttllllaas. Be did act see the charge of (Quarters taking the bed-obeak tour. He has never bald the grade of Technician, ifhon he case into his quarters be thought be beard eoaeone walking around upstairs and went to see . who it was (K72-73). At ows-sscaiaatlcat hs racaabered telling tlajor dill be reached hie quartors around Ili30. (H74).	On
earningtlan by the aouxt, be testified that before be left the car. in the park be felt around- for his .cap on the front seat and floor- . board. Be identified the cap ehuwn bin in court aathe earn be.lost that night. The oap could have fallen out of the oar (R77-S -) •
It was stipulated that A. C. Longdon, if present and sworn, would testify that he was one of the British allitaiy police on duty the evening of 29 August 1943; that hs saw tbs eoataand ear in question and did not recognise the driver,' bat believed the driver .wore the . insignia of Technician 5th Grade (R3o).	•
first Sergeant Gavin T. Fleeter, of aoousod’s battery, testified that be was on 24-hour poos to Salisbury and that be returned on the pass trunk frua u lisbury between 11*45 and 12 *00.
He asked the charge of quarters if everybody was cl tacked in and bs replied n Yes”, and the wlthose went to. bed (k81) . Kxaalnation by the court showed that that was aruund 12*JO (£33)•
5.	Bajor Dswey B. Gill, Inspector General's Departaent, Iuapecter Genaral, 5th Infantry Division, appeared as a witness for tbs court. * His testiaony showed that seven or eight days after tbs incident Is question. Corporals Abrahaaa and rvuns of the It.A.F. each identified accused as the driver when they previously stopped in the B. *.r'.oaap. Twenty or. tarenty-fire sen in separate groups of four, fire or six .
men each, were exarJLned by Abmhsas and Evans. The particular group in which the aocused .was identified wee eowposed of four mm of mji*-stantially the sane else and weight and all wore fatigues (h90-93).
6.	The identity of the accused as kiss fcuggan’s assailast Is adequately established by the following evidence t test irony passengers in the oomaand ear that accused was in poesession of it shortly before 2400 hours, 29 August 1943; identification of -tbs car accused was driving as a cocaand oar by his a Duggan and three was* oooaiseionod officers of tho R.A.F. Ki.litarv Polioej evidence that accused had lost his garrison «p (Pros.Ex.A) after returning with his passengers and that hs was seen without s cap, ocahined with the girl's
-7-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
testimony that shortly after midniffct aa aha escaped tram tha iwwaai car aha sought for bar hat and picked op bar assailant'e oap by mistake aad alth accused'* identification of that asp aa tba one ha had lost) and direct testimony of tha taro H.A.i". Military polioenaa positively identifying tba aocuasd aa tha driver of tha vnhlcla stopped by them after tha assault. This evidence is confirmed by tha discrepancy of 25 alias between tha actual measured mileaga for tha day’s trip and tha ailaaga shorn on tha trip ticket aad which oould aooount for a trip to Andover soma 12 miles away. (Pro6.Ex.B), Tha oourt rasolvsd against the aeousad tha eoafllot in evidanoa aa to hia idantlty. Tha finding in this respect is supported by substantial evidence and upon appellate revlav will not be disturbed by tha hoard of Bariev (CM BTO 192, Lewlqi CM KTC 503, Riohsondi CZI £70 531, umUsrkin* CM KTO 599,
Mocsal vo).
7.	The finding of guilty of tba Specification of Charge 1, i.e., as wait aad battery upon Miss Duggan with intent to coamit rape "by willfully and feloniously attaapting to here sexual interoourae with her forcibly and against bar will" la supported by aubetontial evidence.
"Assault with intact to ooonit reps. - This is an attempt to eoosit rape in which tba avert aart amounts to an assault upon the woman intended to be ravished, indecent advwnoas, lnportuaitiav however earnest; mare threats; and actual Attempts to rape wherein tha overt act is not an aaa%nlt da not amount to this offense. * * * * *
•Me actual toughing la necessary.* * *
"Tha intent to have carnal knowledge of the -woman assaulted by force and without her aoasset ■curt exist and concur with the assault* In other words, the man seat intend to oreroose aaj resistance by tor09, actual or constructive, and penetrate tha woaaa'a person* Any laqs intent will not suffice*
"Once on assault with intent to commit rape is sads, it is no defense that the son voluntarily desisted*" (*»., 1928, per.U9 1, p.179).
The overt act, i.a., tha assault upoe tha victim, is clearly established by her direct teetlsony and is corroborated by testimony of the R*A*F. Military holies that immediately after its ooaalBfrlon she was is aa upset condition, seeping, aad hod a large bump on her fee ahead.
Is CM 233183 (1943) (Bui. JAG., May 1743, seo.451 (2), p.ltt) there ess evidence of an assault and circumstantial evidanoa of an intent be eaenit rape. The seaweed, a total stronger to tba victim, fooroed his
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(273)
■ mmsf-mm has* at a ter and weds le»d ooaaeats. thile eoaonsanrl* bar he* he forced hap to aoaa hash* aba re it waa dark and there etnudc her aad knocked her dam. There m eoae none/ la her per* tat arae was tak*. It eaa held that the record wa* legally *af-tUS^skt to eappsrt finding* of guilty of aaaeult with intent to cowait rape and the sent** adjudged on the ground that, under the fawiUar rule, la seeking the bp tire of human ooodnot, the court need not he Halted to direct evidence end that inferences and deductions trom hen conduct ney properly be ooosidered where they He* naturally Crew the act* proved.	Sin! laxly, the Intent of thia accused to hare
eemal knowledge of Kiss Duggan by force and without her consent way he inferred fro* her tea tine ay as suanariaed above and particularly froa the underscored rerbatia portions thereof, Aoouaed forced hie trlctla down on the soot of the car under hla, atruck bar face when Ac struggled with hla, aiticed her to lift bar skirt, held her by the threat end threatened to kill her if she screened* she had no doubt of hi* in tantieme ae erldanoed "by hie whole attitude*. Kiss Duggan’s tootlnray in this reepeot was edwieeihle. although her statement was a conclusion she was testifying as to foots which could not be dearly or adequately reproduced and described to the eourt. (State ▼.Collins, 294 Fan.957, 73 UK 862, 866). Accused waa in a position to affect bis Intent had be not been defeated by her rceictaaoc and fear that holy far Ids ▼ictia would arrive. Bis later decision*, evidently Induced by her kick and acres*, of course, is no defence (last sentence of CCM., 1928, par.149 1» p.179, above quoted). Considaration of the quest ion whether accused's Intent was to hare intercourse with his ▼ictia against her will, by for* end regardless of her resist** or te pursue his purpose unless she resisted, or te seta the satisfaction of his desirce to the point shore her resistance cade his efforts futile, is a speculative Indulges* that oss hare no pla* in the practical administration of Justi*. There w* substantial competent eriden* fron whioh the court wu warranted in inferring the intent as charged end its findings should not be disturbed by the Board of denri* (Cl £T0
7t> sai&j a cto 189, matesLaa	«	«o	492,	n«ni
CM KTO 595, Hjai).
8.	The findings cf guilty a* to Charge 11 and its Specification, iatentienal Misappropriation of a Govemwent actor vahisle of tbs value in arose* of 450, are awply supported by the record. Misappropriation Is dsftned es •devoting to es spaathorised puryo*" (uc«.,1928,per.150 4, p.184). The record contai* strong arid** that accused devoted the gowransat *111010 in question, valued at 41200-41300, to aa nmthnrl eed pwrpc* by drlviag it a considerable distance tram hi* pest without aay antbority.
9.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 25 years of age and
enlisted 12 October 1939 far thr* years.
-9-
C0NF1DENTIM.
CONFIDENTIAL
10.	Tear the matoa stated, the heard of Revise is ef the •pinion that the rooord ef trial is locally euffleleat to support tho findings ef guilty and the santanee. The 00 art <a legally •onstituted and had Jurlsdietien ef tha accused and ef the offenses. Ho errors injuriously affeotiag the substantial rights of the aeoueed sere eossdtted at the trial.
11.	Conflnsaent in a disciplinary training a eater in the United vingdoa in execution of a tan-year eaotenoa upon eonvietloa ef a heinous offense, while not in harnoqy with the policy aaneuneed in paragraph II, 7*, Circular / 72, KT'VSJl, 9 aoptaether 190, is legally authorised 07 paragraph II, f£ thereof, at tha dieoretisa ef tha officer examining general eourt-murtial Jurisdiction*
B. FRANKLIN RITER
CHARLES M. VAN BENSCHOTEN
ELLWOOD W. SARGENT
fudge jydveeate Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
#(275)
