#(243)
CONFIDENTIAL
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 972
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private First Class ANDREW S. ) PETROVICH (12163914), 35th ) Station Complement Squadron, ' ) VIII Air Force Composite	)
Command,	)
)
27 NOV 1943
VIII AIR FORCE COMPOSITE COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Army Air Force Station 231, APO 639,
22 October 1943* Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five, years. United States Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 86th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Pfc. Andrew S. Petrovich,
35th Station Complement Squadron, VIII Air Force Composite Command AAF Sta. 238, APO 639, being on guard and posted as a sentinel, at AAF Sta, 238 APO 639, on or about 23 September 1943, was found sleeping upon his post,
3.	The only question requiring consideration is the propriety of the designation of a Federal reformatory as the place of confinement. Paragraph 90b of the Manual for Courts-Martial provides:
"Subject to such instructions as may be issued from time to time by the War Department, the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kans., or one of its b ranches, or a military post, station, or camp, will be designated as the place of confinement in cases where a penitentiary is not designated."
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(244)
War Department letter dated February 26, 1941 (AG 253 (2-6-41) E), subject: "Instructions to reviewing authorities regarding the designation of institutions for military prisoners to be confined in a Federal penal or correctional institution", authorizes confinement in a reformatory only when confinement in a penitentiary is authorized by law (CM 220093, Unckel;
CM 228072, Wallace).
4.	Confinement in a penitentiary is not authorized in this case' for the reason that the offense of which accused Was found guilty is not recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by i^enitentiary confinement for more then one year by any statute of the United States of general application within the continental United States or by the law of the District of Columbia. See Article of War 42.
5.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review holds the record of trial legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for five years in a place other than a "penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correctional institution.
- 2 -
CONFIDENTS
CONFIDENTIAL
(245)
•	1st	Ind.
HD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 2 7 ^ ^43	TO; Commanding
General, VIII Air Force Composite Command, AAF Station 231, APO 639,
U.S. Army.
■	1. In the case of Private First Class ANDREW S. PETROVICH (121639U),
35th Station Complement Squadron, VIII Air Force Composite Command, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for five' years in a place other than a penitentiary, a Federal reformatory or correctional institution, which holding is hereby approved. Upon designation of a place of confinement other than a penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correctional institution, you will have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	The record indicates that accused has an excellent character and a year of satisfactory service as a trained soldier. He stands convicted of a purely military offense. He definitely has salvage value and under announced policies the dishonorable discharge should be suspended and Disciplinary Training Center No. 2912 designated as the place of confinement thus allowing him the opportunity to demonstrate his right to another chance to serve his country. When action is taken suspending the execution of the dishonorable discharge, the GCNO should be published.
3.	When copies of the published order are.forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the record of trial together with this holding and indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 972. For convenience of reference please -place that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 972).
Brigadier General, United States Army, , Assistant Judge Advocate General.
1 Indi
Record of trial.
CONFIDENTIAL

#(247)
