#(373)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General '<	with	the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1069
18.DEC 1943
UNITED STATES )
)
▼. - )
Private THOMAS (NMI) BELL ‘	)
(34327756), Company C,	)
390th Engineer Regiment (GS).	)
)
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLT, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS..
Trial,by G.C.M., convened at Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England 8 November 1943. Sentence: To be hanged by the neck until dead.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1,	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations, . -
• «
2,	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	92nd Article of War,
Specification:	In'that Private Thomas (NMI) Bell,
Company "C", 390th Engineer Regiment (GS) did •at Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England on v	or about 3 October 1943, forcibly and feloniously, 'against her will, have carnal	.	,
knowledge of IVX DOREEN CRANFIEID.
He plehded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and the Specification, three-fourths of the members of the court concurring. Evidence c£ one previous conviction by'special court-martial for willful disobedience of, a lawful order of a non-commissioned officer in violation of Article of War 65 was introduced. He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead, all members of the court concurring. The reviewing authority, the commanding officer. Western Base Section, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations approved the sentence and forwarded
- 1 —
CONFIDENTIAL
(37A)
CONFIDENTIAL
the record of trial for action under Article of War 48* The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of’ Operations confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing the execution thereof pursuant to Article of War 50£,
3.	The evidence for the prosecution was substantially as followsi
It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that accused "Thomas (NMI) Bell, SN. 34327756, is a Private in Company *C', 390th Engineer Regiment (GS), and is in the'military service of the United States" (R56).	.	- -
At about 10:15 p.m. 3 October 194-3, Miss Ivy D. Cranfield, 54-Dale Street, Burton-on-Trent, England, 17 years of age,‘ was sitting on a bench in Memorial Park in that town with Kiss Dorothy Ford, 16 years old, 22 Baker Street, John V. Blackshaw, 19 years of age, 498 Anglesey Road and George A.-Price, a British soldier, 500 Anglesey Road, all of Burton-on-Trent. A colored soldier (later identified by all of the above named persons as accused) walked up and down before them three or.-four times, bent over and peered into their faces. Price remarked that the soldier appeared to be lost whereupon the accused placed his hand upon Price's arm and asked him why he thought he was lost* Mis3 Cranfield told accused, who had been joined by another colored soldier •<«*** not to get offended, that we like to be friendly with everyone." Blackshaw and Kiss Cranfield walked away but returned when they observed that Mis3 Ford and Price were still talking to the soldier. Blackshaw told Miss Ford that her father was waiting for her and the two couples went to the corner of the park, followed by both soldiers. Price and Miss Ford then went in another direction (R18,31,34*42-43)•
As Miss Cranfield and Blackshaw walked down a p&th toward Lichfield Street the "big" colored soldier (accused) followed them, but the "small one" went away. ' *At the corner accused seized Kiss Cr&nfield's arm and said "What did you mean by that?" She-replied "Oh, we didn't 1 say anything; it wasn't us." He replied "Don't you Scfeam or else I will kill you." She observed something in his left hand which seemed "more like a knife ***" (R18-19,34-35).	She tried'unsuccessfully to
seize the arm of another soldier who was passing. She then unfastened her coat and tried to slip it off and escape but he told her to fasten it, released her arm and caught hold of the collar of her dress while she did so. He then said "Come with me or I will kill you." (R19). She told Blackshaw that she did not want to go (R*37), and tried to pull away from the accused (R39). Blackshaw then observed that accused had a "slasher, cut-throat" razor of a type where the "blade part bends back into the handle." It was shining in the dark. "He had got it in his right hand between his fingers, and the blade,bent back over his fingers." He was holding the girl's arm with one hand/the razor with his other (R38,40). Two other soldiers came up and said "Hello, Bill." When accused told one of them to "take care" of Blackshaw, the two soldiers
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(375)
caught his arm and made him'walk a short distance between them. They told him that if a white man took a white woman from a colored soldier, the colored soldier would kill the white man, and offered him a cigarette. He turned around and saw that accused and Hiss Cranfield had disappeared. After the arrival‘of the two additional soldiers she had not asked Blackshaw’s assistance in any way nor had she shouted,'or made any outcry when She left* Blackshaw tried to get away from the two men but as soon as he freed one arm they seized the other. When he finally got away he did not see anyone, went home and got his "mate" who lived next door, went to the'girl's house and then to the police station (R19, 34-35,37-41)* . '
Accused took the girl down Abbey Street to the rear gates of an Inn where he said "Will you give me sugar?" When she asked him what he meant he replied "Don't try and be fumy. • Remember,11 still hdve the knife in your back." She told him to let her gd, and that she was go- -ing home. He picked her clothes up but she knocked his‘hand down. As two colored soldiers passed he put his hand over her mouth. When the girl again told him she was going home and started to walk down the street, he seized her arm and took her behind some houses on Fleet Street (H19).
There,’they met Margaret Harfield, 4 Fleet Street, Burton-on-Trent, who testified that she was'returning to her home about lo:30 -10*45 p.m. and found a colored soldier and girl in her yard. When she ordered them to leave, the girl caught hold of Miss Harfield's arm and said "Oh, save me". When Miss Harfield asked the soldier to go he "muttered a few words and refused". For about ten minutesi
"We stood there like fools, nobody speaking to anybody else; until I got tired of it, .
It would have been the simplest thing for me to wake the whole yard, but Miss'Cranfield •never offered to sing out or Bcream or anything else. ***#. She mentioned eomething . to the soldier, *1 told yCu my father would be coming,' but she did not sound too distressed at that time."
w	*
She said nothing further about saving her. Miss Harfield did not see any weapon.in'the soldier'^ hand tad he did not threaten the girl. It appeared that "Either he was holding her arm or ehe was holding his". Finally Miss Harfield "got tired of it," said that she would collect her key and told the girl that she could come indoors with her if she wished to do sc. "There was no move", so Bhe got her key and went around to her front door. Upon returning to see if they had left, she saw the couple walking up the alleyway apparently arm in arm (R46-49,51-52).
'I	’
According to Miss Cranfield's testimony, when she whispered to Miss Harfield "Help me, please" the latter told accused "Let go of her.
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(376)	; ; CONFIDENTIAL
If you don’t I will call igr father." He replied "Go ahead then; call your father." He was holding the right arm of Miss Cranfield who did not know whether or not hafitill had the weapon which she had previously noticed* She made no attempt to escape because she was frightened, and did not scream when Miss Harfield left to get her key because the latter said she was going to get her father* She did not wait for the father fee arrive because accused was gripping her arm, pulled it and she codld fjfct get away from him (R19,57-58).
Holding her all of the time, he took her from the rear of the houses into Green Street near some flood gates. Just before they reached a wall she escaped.from Mm but slipped, fell flat on her stomach and was not able to get up for a few minutes. He threatened to kill her, helped her up and put her on top of a wall the height of which did not exceed her own* He then climbed over "the wall and pulled her down* She did not jump from the wall as he was climbing over, because she was afraid of falling and he frightened her. Although she did not know whether he still had the knife, he bad previously "seemed dangerous" with it and had kept threatening her while in Memorial Park , and in Abbey Street (R19,23-24,59,61).
After they were over the wall he knocked her down on the grass and told her to get undressed. She refused, whereupon he removed her knickers and lilted up her clothes while she told.him to get*off and tried to push Mm away by his shoulders. She was so frightened that She could not scratch him. She was terrified because although he did not then threaten her, he had threatened to kill her while in the park and “by these*big gates" and she did not know whether he still had the knife. He knelt Over her, one knee on each side of her legs, unfastened his tunic, removed his belt and unfastened his trousers. When he was on top of her, she caught hold of his hair, told him to get off, that he Was hurting her. He told her to "shut up" fifed put his hand over her mouth. She did not cross her legs but'"had Ahem stiff,, straight out." He then "bad connections" with her whiletried to push him off (R19,23,59-61),	The,
following questions and answers occurred on direct examination of Miss Cranfield:
"Q. Did he. force his knees between yours?
A, les*
Q. Then did he insert his penis into your private parts?
A* Yes*
Q, How long did he continue in that position? A* A few minutes.
Q* Did he use force to do that?
A. Yes ***.
Q* Was that without your consent?
A, Yes, sir*
Q. And forcibly?
A, Yes*
Q. You never at any time consented?
A- No." (R19,20).
- 4 -
10NFIDENT1M.
CONFIDENTIAL
(377)
. Accused then dressed, told her to get dressed and. when she had done so, put her over the wall and told her to go home and to tell no one about the incident. She was crying and met two Englishmen, one of whom she asked to walk home with her "as there was a oolored soldier following me" ,(R20). She arrived at her home at 54 Dale Street about lit15 -11:20 p.m,, and called to her-father, James IT. Cranfield who found the girl in a very nervous, hysterical-condition. Her right stocking was ripped and her hand was cut with gravel rash. She told him that a colored soldier had got hold of her and dragged her along Fleet Street,’ She then nearly broke down and her father then took her to the police station (R20,28,30).	She was there examined around midnight on the night of
3 October by Dr, Francis L. Pickett, 181 Hornblow Street, Burton-on-Trent, Division Police Surgeon, His examination disclosed that she "had recently ceased to be a virgin", and that her hymen was then tom and actually bleeding, which indicated that it had been torn within a very short time. He found blood on parts of her body, her thighs, on the pubic area and on her clothes. The blood was actually coming down on her thighs art the time of his examination. In Dr. Pickett’s opinion the injury to her genitals occurred "within an hour or -so" of the examination and could have been caused by the insertion of -a male penis (R26-27).
. Prior to 8 October 1943, Miss Cranfield attended two identification parades when accused was absent and she "picked no-one out." Price, and Blackshaw attended a parade of 211 colored troops from which accused was also absent and did not identify anyone. On 8 October at an identification parade of eight colored soldiers. Miss Cranfield without hesitation identified accused who was at the end of the line on the right.-He was in working clothes, "slops", ofa greenish color and wore a hat with a brim "all the way round, a small one". * A smaller man was also then present who wore "slops". Some of the other men in the line wore their uniforms. " At the trial she also identified accused as the man whom she had previously identified on 8 October, and who had attacked her on the , evening of 3 October. When identified by Miss Cranfield at the trial, accused was sitting with other persons at the end of the court room and another colored soldier was seated by defense counsel (R20-22,53-55)*-	1	•
it the identification parade on 8 October Miss Ford also without hesitation identified accused who was the last on the right in a line of eight men. At the trial, after walking about the court toom she Identified him as the man whom she had seen at the identification parade and who "took Ivy off*. After he had been identified by Miss Ford, accused changed places with the colored soldier who had been seated by defense counsel (R31-33,53)*	_	>
On 9 October, at an identification parade of eight men, Blackshaw and Price promptly identified accused. Blackshaw testified that accused had been "the second from the end on ny right hand," and that all the- men in the line were dressed alike and wore a greenish colored working jacket-"on the top part." The man he had selected was the one who had taken Miss Cranfield away. He also identified accused at the trial. Price
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(378)
testified that at the parade accused had worn a forage cap and "the walking-out uniform" with a yellow ribbon on the left side of his jacket*
After all the colored soldiers present at the triad, had been asked to rise, Price identified accused as the man whom he had previously selected at the identification parade and whom he had seen in Memorial Park on the evening «f 3. October (R35-36,43-4A>53).	<
At the identification parade on 9 October, Miss Earfield had also without hesitation identified accused as the man whom she had seen with Miss Cranfield on the evening, of 3 October (R47,53)* At the trial she _ selected accused and another soldier and both spoke at her request. She then identified accused as the man who had accompanied the girl, but testified that she was not positive of her identification because at the parade he "stood out amongst the others more than he does now". _(R47-5l)*
Police Inspector Horace J. Brookes, stationed at Burton-on-Trent, who b«d conducted the identification parades, interviewed Miss Cranfield's father, her step-mother, the "young man with whom she had been keeping company," and Miss Ford,, and found that her reputation in the community for truth and veracity was good (R53-54>) *
A* For the defense accused, after being advised of his rights (R62)-, made an unsworn statement in substance as follows:
On 3 October he took the convoy from Sudbury about 2-2:30 p*m., arrived in Burton about 2:4-5 p.m. and walked around the. town with another soldier. They later separated and after 6 or 7:00 p.m. he went to the -park. About 9:00 p.m, he went with Private Cox to a pub named the "Star" and at closing time, about 10:30 p.m. returned to the corner where the convoy was and talked to Private. Cox. At 11:00 p.m. the convoy "packs up". He got on and returned to camp. While at Burton he saw but one girl, June, who promised to bring his watch to town on Tuesday evening or to give it to one of her friends should she not be able to bring it herself. On Monday (4- October)	he was sent	to Liverpool but was later
brought back to camp and told	to dress in	fatigues. "The rest	of	the
boys was in their O.D's."	this	girl come and had one boy speak
one or two words and then she	came to me,	and this bobby has me	to	talk
for a while.'"*"*. I did not know what it	was all about" (R63).
On the evening of 3 October, Private First Class Watie L-. Cox, Company C, 390th Engineer Regiment, saw accused on a corner near the park in Burton-on-Trent at about 6:4-5 p.m. He observed him in the pub named the "Star?;at about 10:00 p.m., and at some time between 10:30 and 11:00 p.m,-saw him again on a corner by the park "when the convoy left." - The convoy was situated about 50 yards from the park. Cox did not speak to accused who was with Private Lee White, and soldiers named De Chayser.,
Lee Colston and Lee Booker. A large gathering of soldiers was then present. About 10:4-5 p.m. Cox left on the. first convoy which took some of the men to Sudbury. It then, returned to take the rest of the soldiers He did not know whether accused returned to camp with the convoy. He saw
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(379)
a pocket-knife in accused’s possession the following day, the blade of which was "not very long," but had never seen him with a razor (R64-68).
5.	Miss Audrey June Gallagher, 52 Lansdowne Road, Swadlincote, Burton-on-Trent, a witness for the prosecution in rebuttal had had a wrist-watch mended for accused. On the evening of 3 October in Memorial Park she met accused who was alone and who said "Hello June, you have got something I want, and if you don't bring it on Tuesday you need not come to town again." Miss Gallagher "*** guessed it was gone 10 because the pubs were closed" and she saw people leaving them (R69-72).
6.	The identity of accused as the man involved in the commission of the offense alleged was clearly established by the evidence. The victim. Miss Ford, Price and Blackshaw promptly identified him both at the police parades and at the trial. Miss Cranfield, Price and Blackshaw had attended previous parades when accused was absent, and did not identify anyone. Miss Harfield also without hesitation identified him at the police parade, and she picked out accused at the trial although her identification wa3 les3 positive. The contention by accused in his unsworn statement that the only girl he saw on the evening of 3 October was Miss Gallagher, that he returned to camp on the convoy about 11:00 p.m., and that at the identification parade he "did not know what it was all about" created an issue of fact for the sole determination of the court, which determination being amply supported by competent evidence will not be disturbed ty the Board of Review (CM ETO ‘492, Lewis: CM ETO 503, Richmond: CM ETO 531, McLurkln: CM ETO 559, Monsalve).
7* Rape is the unlawful Carnal knowledge of a woman by force and without her consent (MCM., 1928, par,148&, p.165). The facts that violence wa3 Used and that the victim did not consent were most convincingly established by the evidence. The young girl, 17 years of age, was seized near the park by accused who threatened'to kill her if she screamed She saw something in his hand which appeared to be a knife or razor. Blackshaw testified that it was a razor. She tried to escape from accused by slipping out of her coat, but was ordered to refasten it by accused who shifted his grip to the collar of her dress. He told her to accompany Mm and again threatened to kill her. . She tried to pull away from Mm and attempted to seize the arm of a passing soldier. When Blackshaw had been taken away by two other colored soldiers, accused took tank the girl down the street, asked her for "some sugar", and told her to remember that he still had the knife in her back. He picked kax up her clothes but she knocked his hand down. He put his hand over her mouth a3 two soldiers passed. When she. said she was going home and started to walk away, he seized her arm and took her behind some houses where they met Miss Harfield whom she asked to save ter. After that episode, still gripping her arm he took her to the wall, where she made still another attempt to escape'but fell flat on her stomach and could not get up for several minutes. . Again threatening to kill her he put her over a wall, knocked her down on the grass and ordered her to undress.
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
When she refused, he removed her knickers himself while she* tried to push him away. He knelt over the girl, undressed himself and laid on top of her. When she seized his hair, and told him to get off, he told her to "shut up" and again put his hand over her mouth. During the sexual intercourse that followed she tried to push him away.
Miss Cranfield explained her silence before Miss Harfield after she had asked her aid, her failure to wait for the supposed arrival of Miss Harfield's father, and the fact that she did not escape'from the top of the wall when accused was climbing over it, by the fact that she was then terrified. Accused had previously threatened to kill her on two or three occasions, had what appeared to be a knife, and "seemed dangerous" with it. She did not know whether he still had it in his possession.
He was gripping her arm while they were with Miss Harfield and pulled her away after the latter’s departure. •
The circumstances to which Miss Cranfield testified fully justify the inference that she did not in fact consent and that accused had carnal knowledge of her by force.' The evidence fully warrants the findings of guilty of the said Charge and of the Specification thereunder (CM ETO 969, Davis: CM ETO 77A. Cooper: CM EtO 611, Porter).
The fact that penetration had occurred shortly before the physical examination'of Miss Cranfield during the late evening of 3 October was established by the testimony of Dr. Pickett that she "had recently ceased to be a virgin," that her hymen was then bleeding which showed that it had been torn within a very short time, and that in his opinion the injury could have been caused by the insertion of a male penis
'8.	(a) Toward the end of his direct examination of Miss Cranfield,
the trial judge advocate asked several grossly leading questions hereinbefore set forth, concerning the force used by accused and the lack of consent by the victim during the actual consummation of the act alleged. The law member cautioned him not to "lead the witness quite so much" (R19-20). No objection in this respect was entered by the defense. Accused's guilt of the offense alleged was clearly establishediby other, competent evidence, and his substantial rights were, therefore', not injuriously affected by the evidence adduced by the use of these leading questions.
(b) Ihiring the re-direct examination of Miss Gallagher by the prosecution, she testified that prior to 3 October when she first met accused he "asked me for some sugar", and that this was the reason she had not been with him since that time. On re-cross-examination she testified-that the term "sugar" was generally used in Burton with reference to sexual intercourse, that accused had then made no attempt to force her and that nothing further occurred after she refused his request (R70-71). This testimony constituted an explanation of accused's request to'Mis3 Cranfield for "some sugar" as well as evidence of a
*• 8 ••
CONFIDENTIAL
' CONFIDENTIAL
(381)
solicitation .for sexual intercourse by accused. This evidence of prior solicitation by accused of another girl was immaterial to the issue involved and should not have been admitted. However, in view of all the evidence which fully warranted the finding of guilty of the offense alleged, the admission of such evidence, although erroneous, did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused*
(c)	On direct examination by the prosecution, Police Inspector Brookes testified inter alia that he had made several inquiries in the community where Miss Cranfield resided and' found that her reputation for truth and veracity was good. The character of the girl had not previously been impeached but the defense made no objection with reference to the admissibility of such evidence. On cross-examination by the defense, he testified that his conclusions as to her reputation for truth and veracity had been reached as the result of inquiries made of the girl’s father and step-mother, her "young man" and Miss F.ord. Under certain circumstances it has been held that the Introduction of character testimony to support the character of an unimpeached witness is reversible error even in the absence of an objection by the defense (CM 201710, Reynolds; CM 190259, Sheffield). However, the Board of Review is.of the opinion that in the instant case accused's guilt of the offense alleged was so convincingly established by the evidence that such erroneous admission of evidence as to Miss Cranfield's reputation for truth and veracity did not injuriously affect his substantial rights (AW 37)*
9* The charge sheet shows that accused was about 23 years eleven months of age at the time of the commission of the offense* He was inducted 10 October 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months, and had no .prior service,
10,	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review . is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally stifficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. The penalty for rape • is death or life imprisonment as the court-martial nfay direct (AW 92).
The sentence that accused be hanged by the neck until dead is legal (CM ETO 438, Smith; CM ECO 255, Cobb; CM ETO 969, Davis: MCM., 1928, par. 103a, p.937;
- 9.-
nnurmriiTiil -
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
TO, Branch Office T JAG., with ETOUSA. 18 DEC 1943 TOs Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private THOMAS (NMI) BELL (34327756), Compary C, 390th Engineer Regiment (GS), attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1069. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orderi (ETO 1069).
3.	Should the sentence as imposed by the court be carried into execution it is requested that a full copy of the proceedings be furnished this office in order that its files may be complete.
, ,	...	C.	McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 28, ETO, 22 Dec 1943)
#(383)
