#(219)
CONFIDENTIAL
In 'the Office of The Judge Advocate General* for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review ETO 268.
18 Feb 1943 FIFTH ARMY
UNITED STATES v.
Private RICHARD H, RICKS (33319911) Company MLH, 22nd Quartermaster Truck Regiment.
) Trial by G. C. M. convened at )	APO # 464, U.S. Army. Sentence*
)	dishonorable discharge, total for'
)	feiture, and confinement at hard
)	labor for the term of his natural
)	life. Penitentiary.
)
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier above named has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification*
CHARGE* Violation of the 92nd Article of War.
Specification* In that Private Richard H. Ricks,
Company "L", 22nd Quartermaster Truck Regiment did, at Oujda, French Morocco, on or about the seventeenth day of January, nineteen hundred and forty three, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation, kill one James T. Watkins,
Technician Fourth Grade, 71st Signal Company, a human being, by shooting him with a rifle.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification
No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to
be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances
due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor, at such place
as the reviewing authority may direct, for the term of his natural life.
234993
nnNflfiFNTIl!
(220)	CONFIDENTIAL
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50^.
3.	The accused is a member of Company "L", 22nd Quartermaster Truck Regiment, stationed at Oujda, North Africa*
The evidence is fairly and accurately set forth in the review of the Staff Judge Advocate, a part of which is herein adopted*
"At about 8*4-5 P.M. on the evening of 17 January 194-3 \ the accused came into the Cyrnos Bar, (R-5, R-10,
R-22, R-27, R-32) which is situated about three city blocks from the camp of the accused's organization,
Company "L", 22nd Quartermaster Truck Regiment (R-5)* Seated at a table in the bar were Sergeants Scroggs and Watkins and Private Brown, all of the 71st Signal Company (R-21, R-26). Private Brown who was drunk (R-6, R-22) started an argument with the accused, calling him a nigger (R-6) a black son of a bitch (R-23) and a yellow bastard (R-27). The accused turned to Sergeant Abbott of his organization and said "Have you got a gun" and "This man called me a nigger and I don't like it". Sergeant Abbot sought to calm the accused and together with a white soldier prevented blows being struck (R-6, R-23, R-27). The accused left the bar (R-7, R-23). Not long thereafter he returned to the door of the bar and called Sergeant Abbott who went out to find him looking at a car parked in the street (R-7). Pointing to the car the accused, who had a rifle (R-7, R-18, R-24-, R-27) said "There is the mother fucker that called me a nigger" and in response to Sergeant Abbott's advice to forget it said "No, I want to kill him." As he said this Sergeant Abbott grabbed the rifle trying to wrest it from the accused who opened and closed the bolt. When Sergeant Abbott looked abound as the accused said "Look out, he is coming after me" the accused snatched the rifle from Sergeant Abbott's hand (R-7). As the deceased who had been sitting in the right front seat of the car came slowly toward them the accused backed up about ten feet, brought the rifle to his shoulder and fired. The < deceased doubled up, staggered back toward the car and fell (R-7, R-24-, R-27). The accused turned and went back toward camp (R-8). Sergeant Watkins was dead from a gunshot wound when examined a few minutes later by an officer of the Medical Corps (R-36). Sergeant
CONFIDENTIAL
234992
(221)
Scroggs and Private Brown were in the rear seat of the car with Sergeant Watkins in the right front, all having gone out from the bar at the invitation of the driver, Private £age (R-24, R-27).
The accused after having his rights properly explained to him took the stand under oath and testified in substance:
’’that he carried the rifle to the bar because of fear of Arabs who had accosted him a week or ten days previously with a display of knives. Before entering the bar he hid the rifle in some nearby bushes. After the argument with Private Brown, during which Brown called the accused a black son of a bitch, the accused asked Sergeant Abbott if they had any rum. Then he went out of the bar and was talking to two Frenchmen when the car pulled up.
He picked up his rifle as two or three men cane out and got in the car. As Sergeant Abbott started him toward cacp he heard someone say "I am going to get him”, so he turned around and saw a man coming toward him from the car. ”He fired at the tree to scare him and the gun went off before it got that high.” Sergeant Watkins started back to the car and the accused went to camp without any knowledge that he might have hurt the man (R-48-53)•
The accused and Sergeant Abbott were good friends (R-56),
A. The 92nd Article of War declares:
”Any person subject to military law who commits murder or rape shall suffer death or imprisonment for life, as a court-martial may direct”.
”Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought.” (MCM 1928 - Par. 14.8).
11 Murder, as defined at common law, is where a person of a sound memory and discretion unlawfully and feloniously kills in any county of the realm, any reasonable creature, that is, any human being in rerum natura in the peace of the sovereign, with malice prepense or aforethought, either express or implied, that is, with deliberate intent or formed design so to do.”
(Wharton's Criminal Law, par.419, pg.625). ”Unlawful”means without justification or excuse.”
(MCM 1928- Par.U8).
1
- 3 -
-	1	•	i'
C - . . . _ '
234992
*\/• it 11* r\* i , .v
(jO'lhi-ti'i i ••»-
'Malice Aforethought. Malice does not necessarily mean hatred or personal ill-will toward the person killed, nor an actual intent to take his life, or even to take anyone's life. The use of the word "aforethought" does not mean, that the malice must exist for any particular time before commission of the act, or that the intention to kill must have previously existed.
It is sufficient that it exist at the time the act is committed. (Clark.)
Malice aforethought may exist when the act is unpremeditated. It may mean ary one or more of the following states of mind preceding or aoexisting with the act or omission by which death is caused; An intention to cause the death of, or grlevious bodily harm to, any person, whether such person is the person actually killed or not (except when death is inflicted in the heat of a sudden pas.sion, caused by adequate provocation); knowledge that the act which causes death will probably cause the death of, or grievbus bodily harm to, any person, whether such person is the person actually killed or not, although such knowledge is accompanied by indifference whether death or grievous bodily harm is caused or not by a wish that it may not be caused; ********** (M.C.M. 1928, par. 148, pgs. 163-164).
t
5. The undisputed facts in this case show that accused entered the Cyrnos Bar at 20:45 o'clock where, without provocation or reason, he was maligned by an intoxicated white soldier, Private Brown, who was sitting at a table; that a Sergeant Abbott sought to calm Private Brown and accused and prevented blows being struck; that accused left the bar, returning in about 45 minutes with a loaded service rifle, looked into the bar and called Sergeant Abbott outside; that Private Brown, Sergeant Scroggs and Sergeant Watkins at that time were sitting in an automobile at the curb in front of the bar waiting for Private Gage,.the driver, who had gone into the bar for sandv/iches and who was going to drive them to their quarters that when Sergeant Abbott came- out of the bar accused was on the sidewalk near the car holding his rifle; and that Sergeant Watkins got out of the car and walked towards accused who backed up about 10 feet and shot Sergeant Watkins, who fell near the car and died almost instantly.
Regardless of whether accused told Sergeant Abbott "No,
I want to kill him," which is denied, and regardless of whether the struggle over accused's rifle took place between accused and Sergeant Abbott, which was also denied by accused, the fact remains undisputed that accused shot and killed Sergeant Watkins who had just gotten
- 4 -
GCNf IDES’ ..
234992
jGiirii
(223)
out of the car in which Private Brown, with whom accused had recently-quarrelled, was sitting. The night was dark and the deceased could not be identified by anyone as he left the car and came up on the sidewalk.
"**** A deliberate intent to kill must exist at the moment when the act of killing is perpetrated to render the homicide murder. Such intent may be inferred under the rule that everyone is presumed to intend the natural consequence of his act." (Wharton's Criminal Law, Pg. 633).
Whether the killing was accidental, as accused claims, or the result of a deliberate intent on the part of the accused, was a question of fact for the'coui-t to decide.
It was the duty of the court to resolve and reconcile all conflicts in the evidence and to judge of the credibility of the witnesses.
It is no function of the Board of Review to act, as a trier of facts.
Even though the Board of Review disagreed with the conclusion .of the court in the instaht case (which it does not), as a tribunal of appellate review, it will not substitute its opinion for that of the court where there is substantial evidence to sustain the findings of the court (CM 211536, Gerber: CM 192609, Rehearing (1930), Dig. Ops. JAG, 1912194Dpeta^OS (2) pg. 259; CM 152797, Viens: CM 2035U, Wedmore). Beyond peradventure, there is substantial evidence in the record which supports the finding that accused was guilty of murder.	.
6.	The hearsay testimony (R8), referred to in the review of the staff judge advocate was properly admitted, it being a part of the res gestae,and, as such, falls within the exception to the hearsay rule (1 Wharton's Criminal Evidence, sec. 503, pg.767).
7.	Accused was convicted of murder under the 92nd Article of War:-
"Any person subject to military law who commits murder **** shall suffer death or life imprisonment as a court-martial may direct*****".
The Court prescribed life imprisonment, and in addition sentenced accused (l) to be dishonorably discharged the service and (2) to forfeit «n pay and allowances due, or to become due. These last two-mentioned elements of the sentence are not affirmatively prescribed by the statute as part of the penalty for the crime of murder when the Court elects to sentence the accused to life imprisonment. The question, therefore, arises as to whether the Court exceeded its authority in including them in the sentence.
It is unthinkable that penitentiary confinement for iife should be imposed without permanently separating the convicted accused from the service; and the Manual for Courts-Martial (1928) provides that:-
"Upon conviction' of ail offense under Article of War 92, dishonorable discharge may legally be impose^ jjjl^hl^fe imprisonment" .(LICM, par,103,pge 92).
(224)
CONFIDENTIAL
The following opinions of The Judge Advocate General elucidate the foregoing statement from the Manual for Courts-Martial»
"The power to impose a sentence of dishonorable discharge is implied, from the power to impose a sentence cf life inprisonment that is expressly granted by Article of War 92. But, in imposing a sentence of life imprisonment, the court should expressly add thereto a sentence of dishonorable discharge} as a sentence of dishonorable discharge is not implied from a sentence that inposes life imprisonment or any other punishment."
(JAG. 220 821, Jan. 21, 1919, Dig.Ops. JAG,1912-1930, sec. 1387, pg. 688).
"A court-martial has power to impose dishonorable discharge upon conviction of a violation of Article of War 92, but where the court has refrained from exercising such power and has not imposed dishonorable discharge as part of the sentence, such discharge is not to be implied. A court which imposes a sentence of life imprisonment should expressly add thereto a sentence of dishonorable discharge".
(JAG. 250-479, Jan. 21, 1919, Dig. Ops, Jag.1912-40, sec. 402 (4), pg. 250).
The above-quoted opinions are the only authorities available to the Board of Review which sustain the proposition that a dishonorable discharge may accompany a sentence of life imprisonment under Article of War 92. It will be noted, however, that the court must actually and expressly include dishonorable discharge in the sentence. It will not be inplied froma sentence to life imprisonment only.
The Board of Review has made a painstaking search of the Acts of Congress in the endeavour to discover statutory authority which will sustah the opinions above cited} none have been found. Support for such conclusion must therefore be found elsewhere.
It has long been a custom and tradition in the military service that a soldier should never be confined in a penitentiary. A common felon should not wear the uniform of a soldier. The honor of the service dictates such policy. As a consequence, it is the generally accepted practice for a general court-martial to include in a sentence of penitentiary imprisonment the provision that the convicted accused be dishonorably discharged.
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
234992
(225)
k. kj ■X 1 ■ - ' - ' ’ :
Vfhile Congress did not specifically direct that a soldier should be dishonorably discharged prior to incarcerating him in a penitentiary,
<{it is most reasonable to suppose that it took cognizance of this well-recognized and established practice when it adopted the 92nd Article of War.
" Congress is presumed to have legislated with knowledge of such an established usage of an executive department of the government". (National Lead Co. vs/u.S. 252 U.S.HO, 64 L.Ed.496;
United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 233, 256,9L.
Ed. 113,120).
It may be urged against the foregoing conclusion that a court, upon convicting an accused for an offense under the 92nd Article of War and sentencing him to life imprisonment in a penitentiary, may include dishonorable discharge in the sentence that other means are ' provided for separating accused from the service .and,Congress, taking cognizance of such means, intentionally omitted the provision for dishonorable discharge. In connection with this argument, the provisions of Section VIII, A.R. 615-360, which authorizes the so-called "blue discharge," are relevant. This discharge is administrative in character. However, such discharge is not given as punishment, and its use is particularly prohibited "when the enlisted man is awaiting trial, or result of trial, or serving sentence adjudged by a general court-martial". It is apparent that this is not a substitute for, nor equivalent to, the sentence of "dishonorable discharge" imposed by a general court-martial, nor can it be used as a corrective for a defective court-martial sentence. Sec VIII, A.R. 615-360 therefore does not afford a means of ridding the service of a soldier who has been sentenced to life imprisonment. The presunption, under the authorities cited above, is that Congress had knowledge of the regulation and in particular the restriction that a "Section VIII discharge" would not be given a life convict. ’With this situation prevailing, there is substantial basis for the position that Congress did not consider such "blue discharge" as a proper or adequate administrative means to implement a court-martial sentence, and that it intended that a general court-martial should include the punishment of "dishonorable discharge" when prescribing the sentence of life imprisonment under the 92nd Article of 7/ar.
The Board of Review is therefore of the opinion that, in the instant case, it was proper to include in the sentence that the accused be dishonorably discharged, despite the fact that the 92nd Article of War is silent in this respect.
The part of the sentence involving total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due, or to become due, involves an entirely different situation. With reference to the construction and interpretation of penal statutes. Chief Justice Marshall in United States v. Wiltberger,
5 Wheat. 75, 94-i 5 L. Ed. 37,42, announced a rule that is fundamental*
- 7 -
OOo
(226)
CONFIDENTIAL
The rule that penal laws are to be construed strictly, is perhaps not much less old than construction itself. It is founded, on the tenderness of the law for the rights of individuals; and on the plain principle that the power of punishment is vested in the legislative, not in the judicial department ******
The intention of the legislature is to be collected from the words they employ. Where there is no ambiguity in the words, there is no room for construction. The case must be a strong one indeed, which would justify a court in departing f£om the plain meaning of words, especially in a penal act, in search of an intention which the words themselves did not suggest.****■*-#*-***«t,
(5 Wheat, 94; 5 L. Ed. 42).
Winthrop applies the foregoing principle to the Articles of War as follows:
"In imposing sentence for the offenses made punishable under these Articles, the- province of the court is simply ministerial - to pronounce the judgment of the law. It has no power to affix a punishment either more or less severe, or other, than that specified:	any different or additional
punishment is simply a nullity and inoperative.******* Indeed,in all cases of punishments of the mandatory class, it is not the court which decrees the penalty but the statute; the distinctive function of the court practically terminating with the conviction". (Winthrop1s Military Law and Precedents, 2nd. ed,, pg. 395).
The phraseology of the 92nd Article of War is obvious and clear with respect to the authority of a court to impose the punishment of life imprisonment. There is no basis for an implication that v Congress intended, when it authorized life imprisonment, also to authoriae the confiscation of the accused's property.
The 92nd Article of War is highly penal; it prescribes as punishment for the crimes therein denounced either death or life imprisonment - the two most severe criminal penalties.
The authorized sentences are mandatory with respect to either of the two designated punishments. The convicted accused "shall suffer death or imprisonment for life, as a court-martial may direct". The court is allowed an election, in selecting the penalty to be adjudged from the two stated in this statute, in order to make it fit the crime and the criminal, but when such election is made the discretionary power of the court is exhausted. The word "shall" contained in the statute is imperative (57 C.J., sec.5,pg.548; M.C.M. par. 103, pg 92).
234992-
CONFIDENTS'.-	(227)
Inasmuch as the 92nd Article of War (l) is free from uncertainties and ambiguities in respect to the designation of life imprisonment as one of the punishments; (2) is mandatory within the limits of the two methods of punishment authorized - death and life imprisonment; and (3) is highly penal, it logically follows that the canon of "strict construction", as announced by Chief Justice Marshall, should be applied with full vigor. Such application results in the conclusion that no court has any right to read into the article the power to adjudge the additional penalty of total forfeitures.
From the date of the sentence the accused is no longer in a pay status; consequently, there will be no future pay or allowances. The penalty arises in applying the forfeitures to accrued pay and allowances. Such pay and allowances are the property of the accused. Within the field where Congress has granted the Court discretion in determining the punishment, the forfeiture of this "property" is recognized as a legitimate method of punishment. (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents - Reprint 1920 - Pgs. 427,433). However, under the 92nd Article of War, where Congress has definitely prescribed the punishment - death or life imprisonment - and thereby left the court no discretion, it is unreasonable and illogical to believe that Congress impliedly authorized a court-martial to forfeit a man's property and thereby increased the penalty over and above that particularly prescribed by the statute.. Rather, logic and reason dictate that Congress did not intend that confiscation of accused's property should follow as part of his punishment.
In view of the foregoing, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the part of the sentence forfeiting all pay and allowances due, or to become due, to the accused is surplusage and void and should not be approved.•
The sentence, however, is not void in toto, but is valid as to that part thereof extending to dishonorable discharge and to life imprisonment. The court had the undisputed power to impose these penalties. The sentence is separable and the void part must be disregarded. (United States v.
Pridgeon, 153 U.S. 48, 33 L. Ed. 631; 16 C.J., sec. 1393, pg.1312; 24 C.J.S., sec. 1584, pg 112).
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the accused and the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial, rights of accused were committed during the trial." The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty and that part of the sentence imposing dishonorable discharge and life
-	9	-
CONFIDENTS!.
234992
(228)
imprisonment, but legally insufficient to support that part of the sentence imposing total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due.
- 10 -
234992
(229)
Cl*
7 i ». (
I U1*-
1st Ind,
"AR DEPARTMENT, JAGO, ETOUSA, APO 871, 1 & I Lii L-^Oi Commanding General, Fifth Army, APO # U6A.	,
1. In the case of Private RICHARD H. RICKS (33319911) Company "L", 22nd Quartermaster Truck Regiment, I concur in the foregoing holding by the Board of Review, and for the reasons therein stated recommend that only so much of the. sentence as involves dishonorable discharge and imprisonment for life be approved. Thereupon, you will have authority to order the execution of the sentence as thus modified.
2. A radiogram is being sent advising you of the foregoing holding and approval thereof. Please return the said holding and this indorsement, and, if you have not already done so, forward therewith five copies of the published order in this c&s
Brigadier General.
Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations.
1' Incl:
Opinion of Board of Review.
234902

#(231)
