#(247)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 973
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private DONALD H. McFALL	)
(32474205), Headquarters and	)
Headquarters Squadron, 403rd	)
Air Depot,	)
)
29K0V 1943
VIII AIR FORCE COMPOSITE COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Army Air Force Station 231, APO 639,
21 October 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. United States Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of the 86th Article of War,
Specification:	In	that Private Donald H. McFall,
Hq. & Hq, Sq., 403rd Air Depot, being on guard and posted as a sentinel, at AAF Station 597, APO 636, on or about 2235 hours 6 October 1943, was found sleeping upon his post.
3.	The only question requiring consideration is the propriety of the designation of a Federal reformatory as the place of confinement. Paragraph 90b of the Manual for Courts-Martial provides:
t"Subject to such instructions as may be issued from time to time by the War Department, the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kans., or one of its branches, or a military post, station, or camp, will'be designated as the place of confinement in cases where a penitentiary is not designated."
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(248)
CONFIDENTIAL
War Department letter dated February 26, 1941 (AG 253 (2-6-41) E), subject*
11 Instructions to reviewing authorities regarding the d e signation of institutions for military prisoners to be confined in,a>Federal penal or correctional institution”, authorizes confinement in a reformatory only when confinement in a penitentiary is authorized by law (CM 220093, Unckel: CM 228072, Wallace).
4.	Confinement in a penitentiary is not authorized in this*case for the reason that no offense of which aocused wasfound guilty is recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than-one year by any statute of the United States of general application within the continental United States or by the law of the District of Columbia, See Article of War 42,
5,	For the'reasons stated, the Board of Review holds the record of trial legally sufficient to support only so much Of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for five years in a place other than a‘penitentiary', Federal reformatory or correctional institution,' :
_ Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
2	—
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(249)
i	1st	Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG.,.with ETOUSA. 2 9 NOV 1943	TO:	Commanding
General, VIII Air Force Composite Command, AAF Station 231, APO 639,
U.S. Army,
1.	In the case of Private DONALD H. McFALL (324-74205), Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 4-03rd Air Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for five years in a place other than a penitentiary, a Federal reformatory or correctional institution, which holding is hereby approved. Upon designation of a place of confinement other than a penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correction institution, you will have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	The record indicates that accused has over a year of satisfactory service as a trained soldier. He stands convicted of a purely military offense. He definitely appears to have salvage value and under announced policies the dishonorable discharge should be suspended and Disciplinary Training Center No. 2912 designated a.3 the place of confinement thus allowing Mm the opportunity to demonstrate his right to another chance to serve his country. When action is taken suspending the execution of the dishonorable discharge, the GCMO should be published.
•3. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the record of trial together with this holding and indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 973* For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 973).
• /
Incl:
Record of trial.
„ V //E. C. McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
CONFIDENTIAL
k
#(251)
