#(261)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1395
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
Private First Class RUSSELL	)
R. SAUNDIRS (16012875), Bat-	)
tery "B“, A6th Field Artillery	)
Battalion.	)
1 ■ MAR 1944
5TH INFANTRY DIVISION.
Trial by G.C.U., convened at Mourne Park Camp, County Down, Northern Ireland 31 January 1944* Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total, forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 15 years. United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD CF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following changes and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	58th	Article	of	War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	First Class Russell
R.	Saunders, Battery "B", 46th Field Artillery Battalion, did, at Tidworth Garrison, Tidworth,
England, on or about 5 November, 1943, deBert the service of the United States, and did remain absent in desertion until he surrendered himself to Corporal William A. Springhom, 707th Military Police Battalion,at Tidworth Garrison,
England, on or about 16 November, 1943.
CHARGE II* Violation of the 69th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	*************,
having been duly placed In confinement in 19th Field Artillery Battalion Guard Room, on or about 3 November 1943, did, at Tidworth Garrison,
Tidworth, England, between 1930 hours and 2000 hours, on or about 5 November 1943 escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.
- 1 -
CHARGE IIIi Violation of the 96th Article of far.
Specification:	In	that *************,
having been restricted to the limits of Collett Pork, Berkenhead, Liverpool, England, on or about 31 October 19A3, did, break said restriction by going absent without leave.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of all charges and specifications. Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction by summary court-martial for absence without leave for one hour and fifteen minutes in violation of Article of War 61. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service', to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for the term of his natural life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, reduced the period of confinement to fifteen years, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50£.
3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows that about 2 p.m., 31 October 19A3, at Collett Park, Birkenhead, England, the members of Battery B,
A6th Field Artillery Battalion, were assembled and informed by the battery commander that the unit was to move overseas for an unknown destination that night, that no passes would be issued and that they were restricted to their "living huts". The battery commander explained that to leave "at this time" would constitute desertion and accused, who was present, signified that he understood the explanation. At 6 p.m. on the same day, accused was reported missing and a search of the area did not reveal his whereabouts (R6-7). The battery morning report of 31 October, which indicated that the organization was stationed at "APO #5 USS LAKEHURST", contained the following entry as to accused's status: "Dy to AWOL 1730" (R7; Pros. Ex.A).
The record of trial shows, without explanation, that on A November, accused was returned to Tidworth Barracks' from the military, police station at Birmingham and was confined in the 19th Field Artillery Battalion temporary guardhouse which was a stable. The battalion was in the.process of moving to Northern Ireland and the Division guardhouse was "closeay^and locked" (RA-5, 8). Between 7:30 and 8:00 p.m. 5 November, accused escaped from this guardhouse (RA-5, 9-10). It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that if Corporal William A. Springhorn, 707th Military Police Battalion was present, he would testify "'That on or about November 16, 19A3, the accused, Russell R. Saunders, Battery B, A6th Field Artillery Battalion, did in uniform surrender himself to military police authorities at Tidworth Garrison, England'"
(Rll).
A. Accused was informed of his rights and elected to remain silent (Rll-12).
5.	The findings of guilty 6f Charges II and III and of the specifications under each (escape from confinement and breach of restriction in violation of Articles of War 69 and 96), are clearly supported by the evidence.
- 2 -
(263)
6.	With reference to Charge I and its Specification, accused was charged with desertion on 5 November, one day after he was returned to Tidworth Barracks, a military station approximately 200 miles from Birkenhead where he went absent from his own organisation on 31 October. The question presented for consideration is whether accused absented himself without leave on 5 November with the intent not to return. His absence without leave for the period alleged, November ,5 to 16, was clearly proved. With reference to the intent not to return:
"A prompt repentance and return, while material in extenuation, is nq defense.
The fact that such intent is coupled with a purpose to return provided a particular but uncertain event happens in the future. *** does not constitute a defense"(Manual for Courts-Martial,
1928, par.130^, p.l42)(Underscoring supplied).
Accused was confined at Tidworth in a temporary guardhouse of the 19th Field Artillery Battalion. There was evidence that it was commonly known that this battalion was in the process of moving. However, there was no evidence whatsoever that accused had knowledge of any impending movement, or that he absented himself with the intent to return after the organisation had departed from the station. Also there was no evidence when the battalion actually left Tidworth Barracks whether before or after his surrender at that station on 16 November.
An inference of an intent not to return may in some cases be drawn from the fact that accused had escaped from confinement at the time he went absent, as in the case under consideration (Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, par.130a, p.lAA). On the other hand, a short period of absence terminated by surrender may, under certain circumstances, serve to negative such an intent. Eleven days after his initial absence without leave from Tidworth Barracks on 5 November, accused surrendered in uniform at the same station. There is no evidence that he knew where his own organisation was then stationed.
"It cannot be said that an unexplained absence without leave for 11 days, even when terminated by apprehension, constitutes desertion as a matter of law"
(CM 12590A (1919), Dig.Ons.JAG., 1912-19AO, sec.Al6 (8), p.268).
"The fact that accused was absent without permission from his organization for 12 days in France, terminated by voluntary return, is not sufficient to support a finding of desertion"(CM 125887 (1919),
CM 127372 (1919),Dig.Ops.JAG,1912-19A0, sec.Al6 (9), p.268).
3
"Accused was convicted of desertion under AW 58. The evidence showed that he went absent without leave and surrendered 20 days later in uniform at a place 40 miles from his post. *** In this case, the absence being of short duration and the place of surrender being a short distance from his post, proof of intent to desert cannot be supplied from these facts alone" (CM 198750 (1932), Dig.Ops.JAG, 1912-1940, sec.416 (9), pp.269-270).
In view of the short absence of 11 days, terminated by surrender in uniform at the same station, and in*the absence of any other evidence from which a court might reasonably infer that accused intended not to return to the military service, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the evidence is legally sufficient to support only so much of the finding of guilty of Charge I and its Specification as involves a finding of Guilty of absence without leave for the period alleged, in violation of Article of War 61.
7.	Had the evidence been legally sufficient to sustain the charge
of desertion, the designation of a United States penitentiary as the place of confinement would have been authorized.	As the evidence is legally
sufficient to support the findings of guilty of the military offenses of escape from confinement, breach of restriction and absence without leave only, penitentiary confinement is not authorized (AW 42).
8.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 24 yearB of age and that he enlisted at Detroit, Michigan on 14 November 1940 for a period of three yearB. He had no prior service.
9.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused, except as herein indicated, were committed during the trial. For the reasons stated, the Board of Review holds the record of trial legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charges II and III, and of the specifications thereunder, legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Charge I and its Specification
as involves findings that accused did, at the time and place alleged, absent himself without leave and did remain absent without leave until he surrendered at the place and time alleged, in violation of Article of War 61, and legally sufficientto support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for 15 years in a place other than a penitentiary, Federal r ~	‘	'	institution.
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)
- A m
Judge Advocate
1st Ind
To: Commanding
(265)
WD., Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. X MAR 1944 General, 5th Infantry Division, APO 5, U.S.ARMT.
• 1. In the case of Private First Class RUSSELL R. SAUNDERS( 16012875), Battery "B", A6th Field Artillery Battalion, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charges II and III" and of the specifications thereunder, legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Charge I and its Specification as involves findings that accused did, at the time and place alleged, absent himself without leave and did remain absent without leave until he surrendered at the time and place alleged, in violation of Article of War 61, and legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for 15 years in a place other than a penitentiary. Federal Reformatory or correctional institution, which holding is hereby approved. Upon designation of a place other than a penitentiary, Federal Reformatory or correctional institution, you will have authority to order execution of the sentence. If you should suspend execution of that portion of the sentence adjudging dishonorable discharge, then a disciplinary training center should be designated as the place of confinement.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1395. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1395).
/;&/%
// as. c. McNeil,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
- 1 -
\
#(267)
