#(165)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETQ 945
UNITED STATES )
)
Private PAUL K. GARRISON	)
(39254537), Cannon Company,	)
115th Infantry.	)
)
15 NOV 1945
29TH INFANTRY DIVISION
Trial by G.C.M., convened at APO 29, 18-21 October 1943- Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD QF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been e xas&ned by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	Private PAUL K. GARRISON,
Cannon Company, 115th Infantry did, in a bivouac area near Wadebridge, England, on or about 26 July, 194-3 commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and a gainst the order of nature having carnal connection per os with Technician Fifth , Grade Richard C. Free.
Specification 2:	In	that	Private PAUL K. GARRISON,
Cannon Company, 115th Infantry did, at or near Bodmin, England, on or about 8 August, 1943 commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection per os with Technician Fifth Grade Richard C. Free.
Specification 3* (Finding of not guilty).
. Specification 4* In that Private PAUL K. GARRISON,
Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, did, at Bodmin,
England, on or about 22 July 1943, commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection per os with Private Walter J. Niziol.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(166)
CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification 1. In that Private PAUL K. GARRISON,
Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, did, at Bodmin,
England, on or about 10 July 19A3, attempt to commit the crime of sodomy, by wilfully and feloniously taking Private Walter J. Niziol into a room with him, closing the door of same, and asking the said Private Niziol to "let me go down on you", or words to that effect.
Specification 2. In that Private PAUL K. GARRISON,
Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, did, at or near Bodmin, England, on or about 27 July 19A3, attempt to commit the crime of sodomy, by wilfully and feloniously opening the fly of the trousers of Technician Fourth Grade Albert L.
Wolfe and putting his, the said Private Garrison’s, hand on the penis of the said Technician Fourth Grade Wolfe.
He pleaded not guilty to all charges and specifications and was found not guilty of Specification 3, Charge I, and guilty of both charges and of all other specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for five years.	The
reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reforma-. tory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50£.
3.	The undisputed evidence for the prosecution with reference to the offenses of which accused was found guilty, shows that on the evening of 26 July 19A3 in a bivouac area near Wadebridge, England accused and Corporal Richard C. Free, Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, slept in the same pup tent. During the night Free awakened to find his penis in the mouth of accused. Free struck him with his knee and accused let him go (R8,10) (Specification 1, Charge I).
About 8 August 19A3, Free awakened "in a room in the Junior officers' mess building where we slept", and his penis was in accused's mouth. He gave accused a push and he went back to bed (R8-9,10-ll) (Specification 2, Charge I).
About 22 July 19A3, Private Walter J. Niziol, Headquarters Company, 3rd Battalion, 115th Infantry, went to Bodmin where he drank beer. He told accused at a pub that he was going to the officers' mess later. When he returned to camp he went to accused's room in the mess building, lay on the bed and accused put Niziol's penis in his mouth. Niziol did not know what happened next as he "must have fallen asleep". He awoke the next morning in his own bed, but did not remember how he got there as he had been drunk (R12-15) (Specification A, Charge I).
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL •
CONFIDENTIAL
(167)
About 10 July.1943> Niziol was in a kitchen when accused asked him to accompany him to the "phone room". After entering the room accused asked him to pull out his penis and said "I want to blow you". Niziol was about to take his penis out but left when someone with a light passed by the window. Niziol "believed" that accused, who did not touch him, was then kneeling and had his hands "on the couch" (R13-14) (Specification 1, Charge II).
About 27 July 1943, during a field problem near Bodmin, Technician 4th Grade Albert L. Wolfe, Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, and accused occupied the same pup tent. Wolfe awakened during the night and found that accused "was fooling with the fly on ny trousers and had his hand on ny penis". Wolfe turned his back to him and told him to stop it (R17-18) (Specification 2, Charge II).
Captain Grat B. Hankins, Anti-Tank Conpany, 115th Infantry, investigating officer, took a statement from accused after he had warned him as to his rights. The statement, which had been reduced to writing and signed by accused was admitted in evidence, the defense stating that it had no objection. In substance accused admitted therein the commission of the offenses of which he was found guilty (R6-7; Pros.Ex.1).
4.	For the defense accused testified that he had been a sexual pervert ever since he could remember, and that to him an act of sodomy was like an act of intercourse. He had never consulted a physician (R21-22).
5.	When both the prosecution and defense had rested, the court adjourned on 18 October 1943 "to report to the reviewing authority for instructions as to further proceedings in view of'the probability of an inherent defect which renders the accused not susceptible to normal human motives, and which actually influences the normal control of his action" (R29). Attached as Exhibit No. 2 is a basic communication to this effect from the president of the court dated 19 October 1943 and addressed to the Commanding General,
29th Infantry Division. By first indorsement dated 20 October 1943 the reviewing authority ordered the court to proceed with the trial. On 21 October the court re-convened, made its findings and passed sentence (R30).
6.	Ihe evidence submitted by the prosecution, including the confession of accused fully supports the findings of guilty of Specifications 1, 2 and 4, Charge I and of Charge I, and of Specification 2, Charge II and of Charge
II.	The crime of sodomy as denounced by the 93rd Article of War includes carnal knowledge per os (MCM., 1928, par.149k, p.177; CM ETO 339, Gage).
It is alleged in Specification 1, Charge II that at the time and place alleged accused "did *** attempt to commit the crime of sodomy, by wilfully and feloniously taking Private Walter J. Niziol into a room with him, closing the door of same, and asking *** Niziol to *let me go down on you’, or words to that effect".
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
Tho evidence showed that accused asked Niziol to go into a rooa with him, asked him to take out his penis and said *1 want to blow you".
He did not touch Niziol who was about to comply with the request when a person with a light passed by the window and he (Niziol) left the rooa. Niziol "believed" that accused was then kneeling and had his hands on the couch.
It is apparent that by virtue of the acts alleged in the Specification and the evidence, accused was in fact oharged with and committed the offense of soliciting and offering to commit sodomy but not of an attempt to commit sodomy. There was no overt act. The fact that accused was kneeling with his hands upon the couch when Niziol saw the light by the window and left the rooa, constituted mere preparation (CM 185778, Klers).
"Accused was charged with attempting to commit sodomy ’by offering and endeavoring to feloniously and against the order of nature have carnal' connection’ with certain soldiers; and it *as proved that he offered and solicited the opportunity to commit sodomy upon them.
HEID, That such offers and solicitations constituted offenses under A.W. 96, and the evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty. Being closely related to the offense of attempting to commit sodomy, the offenses proved were punishable as would have been attempts,•***. CM 145155> CM 145266."
(Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1930, see.1A8A, p.735);
(Underscoring supplied).
The principles involved in the foregoing ease apply to the case under consideration. The Board of Review is of the ©pinion that the evidence is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II as involves findings that accused did, at the place and time alleged, solicit and offer to commit sodomy in violation of Article of War 96.
7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 25 years of age and was inducted 31 August 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months. He had no prior service.
8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No“ errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specifications 1,
2	and 4> Charge I and of Charge I, Specification 2, Charge II and of Charge II, legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge IZ as involves findings that accused did, at the
-4-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
069)
place and time alleged solicit and offer to commit the offense of sodomy in "violation of Article of War 96, and legally sufficient to support the sentence.
9.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, General Orders #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by General Orders #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of sodomy (MOM., 1928, par.90, p.8l). As accused is under 31 years of age with a sentence of not more than ten years, the designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement is correct (War Department letter AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941).
-5
CONFIDENTIAL
(170)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.	
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. *5 NOV 1043 General, 29th Infantry Division, AP.O 29, U.S. Amy.	TO: Commanding
1.	In the case of Private PAUL K. GARRISON (39254537), Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specifications 1, 2 and 4, Charge I and of Charge I, Specification 2, Charge II, legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II as involves findings that accused did, at the place and time alleged solicit and offer tp commit the offense of Bodony in violation of Article of War 96, and legally sufficient to support the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50J- you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 945. For convenience of reference please place that number, in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 945).
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
#(171)
