#(291)
00;! -~! r ’ ‘) * !
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.
BOARD OF REVIEft.
ETO 764..
UNITED STATES )
)
v.	)
)
General Prisoner GEORGE R.	)
COPELAND (15060657), and	)
General Prisoner ALFRED	)
RUGGLES, JR., (15041594).	)
21 SFP 1943
UNITED STATES ARkY FORCES IN ICELAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Camp Curtis, Iceland, 25 August 1943. Sentence as to each:	Dishonorable
discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 5 years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW,
RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1» The record of trial in the cases of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The trials of the accused with their consent were consolidated for convenience.
3.	The accused Copeland was tried upon the following Charge and Specifications:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	93rd	Article of War.
Specification 1: In that General Prisoner George R. Copeland did at the USA F Stockade Annex,
APO 860, c/o Postmaster, New York, New York, on or about 25 July 1943, with intent to do bodily harm, commit an assault upon Sgt James Johnston,
Company "I", 118th Infantry, by striking him in the stomach, with a dangerous weapon, to wit, a knife.
Specification 2: In that General Prisoner George R. Copeland did, at the U S A F Stockade Annex,
APO 860, c/o Postmaster, New York, New York, on or about 25 July 1943, with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon Pvt George H. Brown,
Company "A", 525th Iff Battalion, by striking him in the stomach, with a dangerous weapon, to wit, a knife.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
4.	The accused Ruggles was tried upon the following similar Charge and Specifications:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	93rd Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	General Prisoner Alfred
Ruggles, Junior did, at the U S A F Stockade Annex,
AFO 860, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y., on or about 25 July 1943, with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon Sgt James Johnson,
Company "I", 118th Infantry, by striking him in the stomach, with a dangerous weapon, to wit, a knife•
Specification 2:	In	that	General Prisoner Alfred
Ruggles, Junior did at the U S A F Stockade Annex,
AP0:860, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y*, on or .	„	about 25 July 1943, with the intent to do him
bodily harm, commit an assault upon Pvt George H.
Brown, Company "A", 525th LJP Battalion, by striking Mm in the stomach, with a dangerous weapon, to wit, a knife.
5* Each accused pleaded not guilty to the Charge and Specifications upon which he was tried. Each was found guilty of Specification 1 of the Charge except the words "striking him in the stomach", substituting therefor the words "threatening him", of the excepted words, not guilty, of the substituted words, guilty. Each accused was found guilty of Specification 2 of the Charge and of the Charge. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. Each accused was sentenced to be' dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for five years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the places of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 50^.
6.	The evidence for the prosecution shows thdt On the evening of 25 July 1943 General friponers Griepentrog, Cooper and Reed were'in the kitchen of the IJSAF stockade-annex, APO 860 (R6,14-15,19). The accused, CopetaScf and Ruggles entered, and each picked up a knife. Thefy asked the whereabouts of a prisoner named 'Brablcbiirn’"(R6-7,15/19). Witnesses estimated the knives to be between 9 to 14 inches long and 1 to 2 inches wide (R7,15,26,32)» Griepentrog and CoopeF‘'repIIed^Hat^Blaokburh~Vfas~probably at the latrine, whereupon Copeland told Griepentrog "I don't want no shit from you" (R7,19). Copeland then had "his knife pressed in Griepentrog*s stomach and Ruggles had his knife against the stomach of Cooper (R7,15,17, 20,26,32).
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
Sergeant James Johnston,.Company "I", 118th Infantry and Private George H. Brown, Company "A", 525th K.P. Battalion then entered the rjpom. Johnston ordered accused to put down their loiives* "Buggies laid his knife on a table but oopeland replied that he did riot intend to put down his knife. Johnston repeated his order whereupon Copeland said "V/e gonpa get ybu too" and "walked fast" or "rushed" toward Johnston, holding the knife in his hand*as if he was "ready to make a slash with it". Buggies picked up his knife and followed" one or two feet behind Copeland. ^ach accused had his knife "drawn up" (R8,11,16,20-21,24,26-27,29,33-34)• Johnston backed up to the door and seized a shovel to protect himself against both accused who were "coming on pretty lively", each.holding his knife up. He held the shovel in front of him and both accused "stopped for a while then". Johnston backed out through the door into another room followed by the accused. "They followed me out to tlie end of the doorway and the fireman there was fixing the fire, and when they got by the door I was just outside and at that time I never looked to see if they was coming after me or not."	He feared the accused would throw the knives
instead of stabbing him.	He believed that they intended to cut him, and
not that they were just trying to bluff him out o£ the mess hall (R27-29). The accused were not close enough to Johnston to .stab him or to put their knives in the latter’s stomach, nor did they attempt to cut him (R18,23, 29-30).
After Johnston had left, the accused turned to Brown. Copeland said to him "You're the cause of this. I’m gonna kill you ***. Comeon, Buggies, let's kill him" Qil2,21,34). Buggies and Copeland both put their knives in his stomach and backed Brown up against a closed door. Brora was."scared" and would have retreated farther if he had been able to do so. The pressure of the knives was such that they were about to pierce Brown’s raincoat. A soldier named Collins then interferred and "kent them apart" and, told Ruggles to use his head. Buggies then told Copeland not to cut Brora with the knii'e,.seized Copeland's hand and nulled the knife away. Brown.was then pushed oi/t of the room by either Collins or Buggies (R9,12-13,21-22,34-36). Cooper did not smell any liquor on Copeland's or Buggies’ breath (R24). Brown testified that he "couldn't say" whether accused were drinking, but that Copeland was "wobbling" when he was running after Johnston (R36).
7.	For the defense, accused Coneland testified that at about 5*45 p.m. he and Buggies went to a hut where they drank liquor which "smelled like powerful stuff". About an hour or two later they went to the kitchen where they asked Griegentrog and Cooper where Blackburn was, and took knives "to get something to eat". Y/hen Johnston and Brown entered,
Johnston asked what they were doing with the knives. Ruggles replied that they were getting something to eat. When Johnston told them to put the knives dovm Ruggles obeyed but Copeland replied "I ain't aiming to put mine down". "Je started looking at them" and Johnston backed up. Copeland chased him to a stove where Johnston seized a shovel. He thought he swung at Johnston who had the shovel drawn up. Buggies followed Copeland
CONFIDENTIAL
*
through the hallway into the other room,. turned around and started towards Brown while Copeland "chased the sergeant on out". Copeland denied touching Johnston with the knife. He returned to the room where Ruggles had his arm on Brown's shoulder and his knife "right down here". Copeland "come up" and told Browji that he thought he was "the cause of all this". Collins then pushed Ruggles and Copeland away and thrust Brown out through the door. Copeland denied touching Brown with his knife, and testified that he (Copeland) was intoxicated (R37-39)•
Although they came against Cooper and uriepentrog and the knives were "right in here like this", Copeland denied that his knife was touching the stomach of” eithep man (R40).
8.	For the defense, accused Ruggles testified that at about 5:45 p.m. 25 July, he and^Copeland went to a hut wnere they drank "wine or something" for a long time. They then went to the kitchen, Ruggles took a knife
to cut some boloney and Copeland got a knife to cut bread. Ruggles asked Cooper and Griepentrog where Blackburn was. They said they thought he was in the latrine.- "We had the knives in our hands and (were) backing Cooper and Griepentrog against the stove" when Sergeant Johnston and Brown entered. Johnston asked what they were doing and Ruggles replied that they were getting something to eat. At Johnston's order,.Ruggles laid down his knife but Copeland, refused to do so and "went for" the sergeant who1 started backing away with the shovel in his hands,' Copeland being "right in front of him", .Ruggles picked up his knife and "walked in" behind Copeland into the dining room. Ruggles then turned* walked back to Brown and holding the knife in one hand and putting the other on Brown's shoulder, told him to get out of the kitchen before he (Brown) caused any more trouble. Copeland then came up. Collins pushed Ruggles and Copeland away, and Brown went out of the room. As Copeland was "pretty drunk", Ruggles suggested that they go to bed. Although he could have cut both Johnston and Brown, Ruggles denied touching them with his knife, nor did he make any attempt to do so (R41-43).
9,	The evidence is legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty as to each^ accused with reference to the alleged assault on Johnston, Johnston twice requested the-accused to put down their knives. Copeland refused and replied that they were going to kill him. He walked rapidly toward Johnston closely followed by Ruggles who picked up his knife again after having laid it down. Johnston backed up towards, the door, seized a shovel and holding it before him for self-protection, retreated through the door into another room still followed by both accused who were holding up their knives, Johnston feared that the men fully intended to use the weapons and left the room because of hi3 belief that the kniye’s would be thrown at him. Although Johnston was not actually cut nor touched by the knives, in view of Copeland's announced purpose that the accused were going to kill him. and their armed and joint pursuit of Johnston into another room, the alleged intent to do bodily harm was fully established in evidence.
CONFIDENTIAL
(295)
The evidence is also legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty with reference to the alleged assault on Brown, Copeland told .Brown that he was the cause of the disturbance and suggested to Buggies that they kill him. Each accused placed a knife against Brown’s stomach and backed him against a closed door. Brown was "scared" and could not retreat farther. The accused desisted only upon the interference of Collins, after which Brown was pushed out of the room. The alleged intent to do Brown bodily harm in the manner described was clearly established by the evidence,
A knife is a dangerous weapon if used or attempted to be used in such a manner that it would be likely to produce death or great bodily harm (CM 209862 - Yanle).
"Some weapons are so cleanly deadly when.used under particular circumstances that the court may declare them so as a matter of law. So it has been held that a club, a large stone, a chisel, *** or a knife, when used in striking distance, is a deadly weapon per se, and proof of an assault with any of these will sustain a conviction of an assault with a deadly weapon. If the evidence as to the character of the weapon or the mode in which it was used is at all conflicting, the determination of the question whether a weapon is deadly is exclusively for the jurors, to decide upon all the facts. The size, shape, character and weight of the weapon or implement used, its manner of use, *** are all relevant. (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, 4-th Edition, sec.598, pp.1170-1171).
The question as to whether the knives were in' fact used by accused in such a manner as to constitute dangerous weapons, was one for the determination of the court.
With reference to its findings that each accused was guilty of an assault on Johnston with the intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon, to wit, a knife (Specification 1,, Charge I), the court excepted the words "striking him in the stomach" and substituted therefor the words "threatening him". The essence of the offenses alleged is that each accused, with the intent to do bodily harm assaulted Johnston with* a dangerous weapon, namely a knife, and the evidence is legally sufficient to sustain-the findings of guilty. The words "by threatening him" are merely descriptive of the manner in which the alleged assault was committed and are surplusage in character. Had such words been entirely omitted the allegations contained in the specification would have sufficiently described an offense.
The testimony of each accused in substance fully corroborated the prosecution's evidence with the exception that each accused denied that his
CONFIDENTIAL
(296)
CUtlFIDtHTlM.
knife touched Brown, and both testified that they had been drinking.
Copeland and Ruggles testified that Copeland was intoxicated. The witness Cooper testified that he did not smell any liquor on the breath of either accused. Brown "couldn't say" whether accused had been drinking, but testified that Copeland wobbled when he ran after Johnston. The question of intoxication was one of fact for the determination of the court.
10.	The charge sheets show that each accused is 21 years of age. The accused Copeland enlisted for three years' service 18 November 194-0 and the accused Ruggles enlisted for three years' service 19 August 194-0. Neither accused had any prior service.
11.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and 'the sentences.
12.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4- December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced" to confinement for not less than three years or where he has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Assault with intent to do bodily harm with a dangerous weapon is such an offense and the approved sentence as to each accused is five years. Both conditions of the order are present. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offenses alleged (18 U.S.C., sec.4-55; 35 Stat. 114-3). War Department directive (AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941) requires that prisoners under 31 years of age with sentences of not more than ten years be confined in a Federal Correctional Institution or Reformatory. The designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio is correct.
Judge Advocate
Advocate
Judge Advocate
- 6 -
-'il *	—	t	«	;i	,L
CONFIDENTIAL
1(2% lid.
(297)
ED, Branch Office TJAG., with EIQB8JL> .	*	^	TO:	Commanding
General, United States Army J’&rcas in ’ Iceland, APQ $60.
1.	'In the c&se of General Prisoner GEORGE R. CCPEXAND (15060657)
and General Prisoner AHRED BUGGIES, JR,, (15041594)attention is invited, to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence a3 to each, which holding is hereby approved. You now have authority to order execution of the sentences. It is recommended that a separate general court-martial order Issue a3 to each accused.
2.	When copies of the.published orders are forwarded to this office
they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 764. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end.of the respective orders:	(ETO	764).
// - ' E. C. ttcNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(299)
