#(153)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
ETO 128.
UNITED STATES v.
Tech. 5th Grade DONAID J. RINDFLEISCH (6872518), Company ”DB, 5th Engineers.
1 9 DfC 1942
) UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES IN ICELAND
)
) Trial by G.C.JI. convened at APO 1266 ) c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y.,
) U Sept 1942. CHL six months and ) forfeiture $36.50 per month for six ) months. Confinement at such place in ) the Eastern Defense Command as the ) Commanding General thereof may direct#
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the cane of Tech. 5th Grade Donald J. Rindfleisch has been examined in the Office of the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been e jemined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Judge Advocate General for the European Theater of Operations*
2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	96th	Article of War.
Specification: 1. In that Technician 5th Grade Donald J. Rindfleisch, Company "D", 5th Engineers, was at the British Y.K.C.A., Akureyri, Iceland on or about 2030 hours, July 26, 1942, drunk and disorderly in uniform under such circumstances as to bring discredit upon the military service.
CHARGE II: Violation of the 90th Article of War.
Specification: 1. (Found not guilty).
- 1 -
m
(154)
CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE III* Violation of the 94th Article of War.
Specification* 1. In that Technician 5th Grade Donald J. Rindfleisch, Company ,"D", 5th Engineers, did at South Camp, Akureyri, Iceland, on or about 2200 hours, July 26, 1942, willfully and without proper authority apply to hie own use U.S. Army truck, Bedford model, No. 4445385, of the value of about $1500.00, property of the United States, furnished and intended for the use thereof.
He pleaded guilty to Charge I and its Specification and later changed his plea to that of not guilty. He was found guilty of the Specification, except the words "British Y.M.C.A. 2030 hours" and "disorderly in uniform under such circumstances as to bring discredit upon the Military service" -of the excepted words "not guilty" - and "guilty" of the Charge. He pleaded not guilty to Charges II and III and the respective Specifications thereunder and was found "Not Guilty" of Charge II and the Specification thereunder and "Guilty" of Charge III and its Specification. He was sentenced to six months confinement at hard labor and forfeiture of $48.00 per month for a like period.
The Reviewing Authority approved the sentence but remitted all forfeiture of pay adjudged in excess of $36.50 per month for six months; confinement was directed at such place in the Eastern Defense Area as the Commanding General thereof may direct. The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Order No. 81, Headquarters, U. S., Army Forces, AP0 860, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y., dated September 29, 1942.
3.	The Board of Review will confine its discussion to the evidence only offered to prove Charges I and III and the Specifications thereunder and the law applicable to each. Referring to Charge I, Specification 1, and eliminating the excepted words of which he was found not guilty, we find that accused was found guilty only of - "was at the Akureyri, Iceland, on or about July 26, 1942 - drunk". The evidence offered to prove this Charge and Specification, in pertinent part shows* That on 26 July 1942 accused was a T/5 on duty with Company "D", 5th Engineers, stationed at or near Akureyri, Iceland; that on that evening a dance was being held In the British Y.M.C.A. in Akureyri (R.7) at which only soldiers accompanying girls were admitted. Accused and a Private Smith, having no girls, gained entrance to the dance by means of a rear window (R.31). Lt. S. Bunker, Royal Engineers, testified that he attended the dance as duty officer and upon learning that accused and Private Smith had gained admission in an improper manner asked them to leave, which they refused to do; that accused was present when the "other man was very abusive to me and the British Army in general"; that accused was not himself actually abusive but was "egging the other man on" (R.5); that he, the witness, then ordered his Corporals to eject the two Americans (R.6) and that one of them put his arms around accused and carried him
- 2 -
AAnrinrilTi fi I
128
CONFIDENTIAL
(1!
out bodily (R.23). Private Smith walked out, escorted by two Englishmen. Outside Private Smith became abusive towards It. Bunker (R.2A) and demanded that he come outside and fight (R.6). Accused said to Private Smith, "He really means it. Lets go". When asked whether or not accused was drunk, Lt. Bunker replied "I don't think so".
Corporal G. Harris, Royal Engineers, who testified substantially the same as did Lt. Bunker, was silent upon the matter of accused's alleged drunkenness (R.7, 8).
Corporal John M. Perks, Company "D", 5th Engineers, - a witness for the prosecution when questioned regarding accused's sobriety testified as follows:-
Q. Did you see accused on that night?
A. Yes sir. He was brought into the guard room sir.
Q. At that time was accused drunk?
A. I don't know sir.
Q. You mean to tell me you can't tell when a man is drunk?
A. I could tell when a man had been drinking. It all depends on what you call drunk.
Q. Will you tell the court whether or not the accused had been drinking?
A. He had been drinking. (R.12).
Examination by the Court:
Q. Corporal was the accused driving the truck?
A. I could not say. I don't think so, because Private Hicks said-------
President:	The	witness	will limit himself to official
reports or matters that he knows about the circumstances. President:	I	am	going	to read a sentence from the Court-
Martial Manual after which I want to ask the witness a question.
"Any intoxicant which is sufficient sensibly to impair the rational and full exercise of the mental and physical faculties, is drunkeness within the meaning of the article."
Q. You understand?
A. Yes sir.
Q, Was the accused drunk?
A. Well, sir, I would say he was not drunk when I seen him.
Q. Would you say that he had full exercise of his mental and physical faculties at the time you saw him about midnight or after midnight?
A. Yes.sir. (R.13).
- 3 -
IS
Private Harold J. Hicks a witness for the prosecution testified:
Q. Did you talk to the accused on that night?
A. No sir.
Q. Was there anything in the actions of the accused that would indicate that he was drunk?
A. No sir. (R.14, 15).
Captain Thomas J. Bowen a witness for the prosecution testified as follows:
Q. Was the accused intoxicated on that night?
A. I do not know. T did not see him (R.16). •
Private 1st Class Jackson V. Leighty a witness for the prosecution testified:
Q. Private Leighty, at any time in this argument with the British Officer, did the accused shake his fists at the British Officer? Take his coat off and fling it on the ground, or threaten to fight the British Officer?
A. No sir. When he came out of the Y.M.C.A. he had a blouse on and fully buttoned.
Q. Did the accused appear to be drunk?
A. No sir. (R.20).
Sergeant Vincent J. Serbun, another witness for the prosecution, testified:
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Was the accused drunk?
I would not say so sir.
Then when Rindfleisch got up from this bench, did he get up in a threatening manner or do you believe he was preparing to leave the hall?
He just slowly arose from his seat in the usual manner. Did Rindfleisch offer resistance to this bodily removal from the Y.M.C.A.?
No sir.
Would you say the accused was dressed as neatly as he is now?
I would say he was dressed better sir. (P.2A).
and upon cross-examination he testified as follows:
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
Was the accused drunk?
I would not say he was drunk sir.
Was he under the influence of alcohol?
I would say he knew what he was doing.
Do you think he was in possession of all his faculties? Yes sir. (R.25).
- U -
±28
CONFIDENTIAL
(157)
Upon examination by the Court the following questions were put to the witness and the following answers given:
President: I want to read a sentence from the Court-Martial Manual and then ask you some questions. You understand the meaning of the word "intoxicant"?
A. Yes sir.
President: Any intoxicant which is stifficient sensibly to impair the rational and full exercise of the mental and physical faculties is drunkeness .
Q. Do you understand the definition of drunkeness , Sergeant? A. Yes sir.
Q. You feel that all his actions were clearly thought out or were his actions in a manner that was improper because of "feeling too good"?
A, No sir, he wasn’t. (R.25, 26).
The accused, after having had his rights explained to him, took the stand under oath in his own behalf, and as regards his condition on the occasion in question testified:
Q. You claimed you had a young lady with you?
A. Yes sir.
Q. Were you drunk?*
A. No sir.
Q. Were you drinking?
A. Yes sir. (R.28).
A. AW 96 - for violation of which accused was found guilty under Charge I, reads as follows:-
"Though not mentioned in these articles, all disorders and neglects to the prejudice of good order and military discipline, all conduct of a nature to bring discredit upon the military service, and all crimes or offenses not capital, of which persons subject to military law may be guilty, shall be taken cognizance of by a general or special or summary court-martial, according to the nature and degree of the offense, and punished at the discretion of such court." (M.C.M.pg.224-)*
By exception the accused was found not guilty of being disorderly in uniform in a public place as charged in Charge I and the Specification thereunder, but guilty of being drunk at Akureyri. Without going into the question of whether or not this finding constitutes an offence cognizable under the Articles of War the Board of Review is of the opinion that there is not even a modicum of evidence to support it and that the record is insufficient to support the findings under Charge I, Specification 1.
5.	The testimony relied upon to prove Charge III and the Specification thereunder is as follows:
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
128
CONnnFNTIAL
Staff Sergt. Robert D. Trainer was on Military Police duty on the night of 26 July 1942. He saw the accused with a truck "and I told him to take the truck and go back to camp". Accused left and later came back to the dance and witness again told him to take the truck and go back to camp. Later he saw them driving around the town in the truck (R.9)• Witness saw accused in the Government vehicle three times that night. He could not say whether accused was driving the truck or sitting behind the wheel (R.10). The third time he saw accused in the truck was near the theatre in Akureyri but did not know on which side of the truck accused was sitting (R.lO-ll).
Private John M. Perks testified that he was a member of accused's organization and was Corporal of the guard on the night in question. He directed the sentry to stop and arrest accused and Private Smith when they came back with the truck. He did not know how accused came into possession of the government vehicle (R.12). He did not ask him if he had a trip ticket. The accused was not a regularly assigned truck driver in this organization and the witness had never seen him drive a truck (R.13).
Private Harold Hicks, who was sentry on duty at the Main gate on the night the alleged offenses took pjace, testified:	That	accused	and
Private Smith came up the road at about 9:30 or 10 o'clock that evening and then disappeared. That at about 10:30 p.m., they came around the comer in the truck and witness called to them to halt but that they kept on going (R.14). That accused was not driving the truck at that time (R.15).
Captain Thomas J. Bowen testified that he was the commanding officer of accused's companyj that on the night in question the vehicle did not have a proper trip ticket and that he did not know whether or not accused was a passenger in the truck. He identified the vehicle by an Issue and Receipt voucher (R.17) and fixed the value at $750 at the time it was taken over from the British on about July 10, 1942 (R.19).
The accused took the stand in his own behalf, was sworn and testified as follows:
Early in the day he and Private Smith had purchased movie tickets. They went straight to the movies following their trouble at the dance. After 5 or 10 minutes in the movies they left and returned to camp. They were there only a few minutes and saw the truck. That Private Smith got behind the wheel (R.27) "and I followed him". That they then drovq^he truck over near the theatre, parked the truck and went into the theatre. Upon leaving the theatre they drove around the town then returned to camp, where they were put under arrest (R.28). That neither he nor Private Smith had procured a trip ticket. That he knew they were supposed to have one in order to leave camp. That he had never been a driver (R.29) and did not know how to drive a truck (R«3l). That the M.Ps. told them to go "home" only once and that they returned to camp in about 20 minutes thereafter. He remembered running through sentry post No. 1 (R.30).
6 -
/vu,'.c:r.FN i'IAV
128
(159) „
CON F
Charge III, Specification 1, i3 laid under AW 94, the pertinent part of which reads as follows:
"*** Who steals, embezzles, knowingly and willfully misappropriates, applies to his ovm use or benefit, or wrongfully or knowingly sells or disposes of any ordnance, arms, equipments, ammunition, clothing, subsistence stores, money, or other property of the United States furnished or intended for the military service thereof.****
Shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by fine or imprisonment, or by such other punishment as a court-martial may adjudge, or by any or all of said penalties.****”
(M.C.M. pg.224).
There is no denial on the part of accused that he and Private Smith took the truck without either of them having a trip ticket or authority so to do. Accused at least knew they "were supposed to have an order to leave camp". They ran through a sentry post without stopping after being ordered by the sentry to halt, and they used the car for their own convenience in going to a theatre and riding about the town*
The fact that accused did not drive the car is of no importance.
He was present when the car was unlawfully taken; he aided and abetted in its taking by voluntarily becoming a passenger and by participating in its benefits. Under a statute, which prohibits the use of an automobile without authority, the word "use" includes use by a passenger and it is not necessary to constitute such use within the meaning of the Statute that there be active control or operation of the machine by one who rides therein. (42 C.J. par. 1505', pg.1399).
It was sufficiently established that the truck was property of the United States furnished and intended for the use thereof. While the United States may not have acquired the absolute title to the truck from the British government (R.17, 18), yet it.did hold lawful possession of same. This is an adequate property interest in the truck to sustain the charges (Winthrop’s Military Law and Precedents, sec.1065, pg.686). The value of the truck was not clearly and properly established but the court was justified from the character of the property in infering that it has some value (M.C.M,-1928, P.173).
For the reasons stated the Board of Review holds that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings as involves a finding*of guilty of Charge III, Specification 1, and the sentence as approved. The court was legally constituted. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were
- 7 -
C0\\F!Or\'TlAL
128
(160)
committed during the trial. The sentence as approved is within the maximum punishment permitted for this offence under the Table of Maximum Sentences.
138
8
#(161)
