#(261)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 992
UNITED STATES	)	-
)
v.	)
)
Private DUNCAN (Mill) FORTENBERRY ' ) (3A623669), Headquarters and	)
Headquarters Squadron, 44th Bom-	)
bardment Wing, 1st Fighter	)
Division (Prov.), VIII Air	)
Support Command.	)
10 DEC 1943
EIGHTH AIR FORCE.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at USAAF Station No. 466, APO 638, 4 November 1943. Sentence:	Dishonorable
discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. United States Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	Private	Duncan	(NMI)
Fortenberry, Kq & Hq Sq. 44-th Bomb Wing (H),
1st Fighter Division (Prov), VIII Air Support Command, did, at Grazeley Green,
• Burghfield, Berkshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943, with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon Alexander Ferguson, by stabbing him in the right shoulder, with a dangerous weapon to wit, a knife.
Specification 2:	In	that	Private	Duncan	(NUl)
Fortenberry, Hq & Hq Sq, 44th Bomb Wing (H),
1st Fighter Division (Prov), VIII Air Support Command, did, at Grazeley Green,
Burghfield, Berkshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943, with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon George Frederick James Stubbington by stabbing him in the back with a dangerous weapon, to wit, a knife.
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
CHARGE II; Violation of the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In that Private Duncan (Ml) ,
Fortenberry, Hq & Hq Sq, 44th Bomb Wing (H),
1st Fighter division (Prov), VIII Air Support Conmiand, did, at Grazeley Green,
Burghfleld, Berks, England, on or about 1 October 1943, unlawfully carry a concealed weapon, viz: a knife with a three and’one-half inch blade, during his off duty hours. and among the.civilian population, contrary, to Section .IV, Circular No 76, Hq ETOUSA,
' 18 Sept 1943.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of all charges and specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to. become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for a period of five years. Ihe reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War $0^-.
3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
4.	The charge sheet shows accused is 22 years of age with less than
ten months service, ' Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of assault with intent to do bodily .harm with a dangerous wpapon (35 Stat. 1143; IS USC., sec.455).	As accused is less than 31 years of
age and the approved sentence is less than ten years, the designation of the Federal.Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement is* correct (Vffi, Cir.291, 10 November 1943, sec.V,3a).
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind
(263)
WD, Branch. Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 10 OEC 1943	TO:	Commanding
General, Eighth Air Force, APO 633, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private DUNCAN (NMI) FGRTENBERKI (34623669), Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 44th Bombardment Wing, 1st Fighter Division (Prov.), VIII Air Support Command, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial Is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, v/hich holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50$ you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. iThe file number of the record in this office is ETO 992. For convenience 'of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 992).
V 4. C. McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
CONFIDENTIAL
#(265)
