#(7)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations . APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 850
UNITED STA.TES )
)
i
Sergeant HERBERT R. ELKINS	)
(11016741), 86th Air Transport	)
Squadron, 27th Air Transport	)
Group.	)
22 NOV 1943
VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 575, 16 September 1943. Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, suspended, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for two years. 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW BITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch.Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
• CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
. Specification* In that Sergeant Herbert R. Elkins,
86th Air Transport Squadron, 27th Air Transport Group, AAF 575, APO 635 did, at AAF 575, APO 635 .during the period from about 15 October,
1942 to about 18 January 1943, feloniously embezzle hy fraudulently converting to his own use a sum of money, to wit* 1304. 13. 8.
($1229.40) the same having been received hy him 5 in his capacity as the non-commissioned officer in charge of the said Post Exchange.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of pre-sbus convictions was introduced.. He wan sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
such place as the reviewing authority may'direct for two years. The reviewing authority approved the.sentence hut.suspended the execution of the dishonorable discharge until the\soldier's release from confinement and designated 2912th Disciplinary Training CenterShepton Mallet, Somerset, England as the; place of confinement. ;	.
The result of, the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Order No, 33, Headquarters VIII Force Service Command, APO 633 dated 9 October 1943• .
3,	The evidence for the prosecution shows that on 15 October 1942, Technical Sergeant Fred T. Gove, 86th Air Transport Squadron, then acting first sergeant of the headquarters detachment, VIII. Air Force Service Command, which was stationed at AAF Station 575, placed accused in charge of the post exchange upon verbal orders of the commanding officer. Accused operated the exchange from l5 October 1942 until Sergeant Anderson assumed charge during the first-pert of 1943 (R15-17),
•i During October, November and December 1942 Sergeant Harry R. McCall,'86th Air Transport Squadron, who was accused's, room-mate and who had knpwn him about a year and 10 months, occasionally accompanied him to an office on Commercial Road where he obtained tally-out slips.
They then went to the "Docks" where accused collected post exchange supplies, McCall also helped him to display the supplies for sale and to sell them,.. Accused kept the money received in a wall locker "until it was paid over to the quartermaster", McCall had never Seen him pay . any money over, but had observed him working on his records. He kept his tally-outs and requisitions in a book which he.had in his wall locker •-McCall noticed no receipts for payment of money fop post exchange supplies in accused's possession (R21-24.)..
, During November and December 1942* a person drawing post exchange supplies would bring his tally-out slip from an office on Commercial Road to Victoria Docks,_ Both the deliverer and receiver of the goods wouid , first check the oriler by the tally-out. After the order was,checked and loaded each would sign the tally-out. The signature .of, the receiver, on the tally-out would indicate that the supplies had been delivered to him. Master Sergeant Jesse A. Dudley and Sergeant Ennis D. Preston, both of , Depot G 30, SOS who were stationed at the docks and checked tally-outs, identified their respective signatures appearing on certain tally-outs which also bore the signatures of either Sergeant "Herbert R. Elkins" or Sergeant "H. R. Elkins", No proof as to the authenticity of the signatures "Herbert R. Elkins" or "H. E. Elkins" was established in evidence. One tally-out (Ex.H) bore the signature of a checker other than Sergeant . Dudley or Sergeant Preston. Seven.tally-outs were admitted in evidence , "for what they are worth" pursuant to a stipulation between the prosecution and defense. . They covered a period beginning 7 November 1942 and ending 30 December 1942 (R24.-27J Pros.Exs. B - H),
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(9)
First Lieutenant Leonard Krieger, Air Corps, 27th Air Transport Group was adjutant of his organization until 1 November (1942). He testified that the post exchange, was operated on a cash basis up to 15 October but he did not know whether it was operated on a cash or credit basis after that time as his duty was changed on 1 November. During the time he was adjutant, all purchases were for cash, no book-keeping system wa3 established nor were there any records, books, checks or sales receipts. Until 1 November (1942) as adjutant he signed requisitions presented to him by accused which were in triplicate and which contained a list of what was to be requisitioned for the post exchange. He did not sign receipt form 389 or any similar form of receipt transferring money. During this period accused never turned in to him any money, deposit slips or receipts, nor did Lieutenant Krieger ever transmit to the finance department money belonging to the post exchange. No sales officer was appointed during the time that he was adjutant (R3-8).
On both direct and cross-examination Lieutenant Krieger testified that he never authorized accused either verbally or in writing to purchase supplies for the post exchange. However, on cross-examination when asked if his signature was on a certain document he admitted that "It looks like it" (R4,6). The letter, which was introduced in evidence by the defense with the consent of the prosecution (R6; Def.Sx.l) was dated 21 October 1942 and was addressed to the officer in charge, U.S. Army Exchange Service, ETOUSA. It described accused as of Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, VIII Air Force Service Command, and authorized him to draw post exchange supplies for 20 officers and 65 enlisted men stationed at Hendon Airdrome, Also introduced in evidence by the defense with consent of the prosecution was Circular #67, Headquarters, ETOUSA, dated 25 October 1942 which contained a paragraph entitled "SATES STORE SERVICE IN THE ETOUSA" (R7; Def,
Ex.2),
On 7 December (1942) Captain Russell M. Kolyneaux, Air Corps, 86th Air Transport Squadron relieved Lieutenant Krieger as station adjutant. Accused gave him some papers to sign as adjutant but he could not recall their nature. He never received from accused any money, sales or deposit slips to be transmitted to the finance office at 7/idewing or elsewhere, nor did he ever sign any receipts issued by the finance department showing payment for post exchange supplies. He "was under the impression" that the supplies were paid for on a cash basis but did not know whether payment had actually been made. In January (1943) accused was relieved of his* duty as the non-commissioned officer in charge of the post exchange and a Sergeant Anderson replaced him. As the result of a letter received in May (1943) Captain Molyneux detailed a Lieutenant Brown to make certain investigations concerning the finances of the exchange and a Lieutenant Zipper was subsequently appointed, investigating officer (R17-21).
First Lieutenant Harry Zipper, Air Corps, 86th Air Transport Squadron, found as a result of his investigation* that during the time accused operated the post exchange he made seven purchases of post exchange
- 3 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
supplies, the first tally-out being dated 7 November 1942, and the last tally-out being dated 30 December 1942. Lieutenant Zipper found on file at the finance office, SOS copies of these tally-outs. Upon investigation he found no copies of receipted payments at the finance offices at T/idewing, London, or at the SOS headquarters, Cheltenham for these quartermaster supplies which had been issued to accused. He also made inquiries at "Kew- Gardens" because that office at one time had maintained some of the London finance1 records, but found no financial records on file. An examination of the records at Victoria Docks disclosed that no letter of authority (to purchase supplies') addressed to accused and signed by an officer was on file (R8-I4).	5
Captain Francis W. Anderson, Finance Department1, VIII Air Force Service Command, disbursing officer. Camp Griffiss (Widewing) testified that when payments for post exchange supplies were made to his office,’ the post exchange officer concerned would sign and Submit in quadruplicate a receipt (form 389). Captain Anderson would "receipt for the money" and return one copy to the post exchange officer. He would send one copy to the SOS finance officer, another copy went with his original papers and the fourth copy was placed with his retained records. Every payment that was made through his office would be. shown in the office records. At the request of Lieutenant Zipper, Captain Anderson had examined the records of his office and identified a certain letter bearing his signature which gave the results of his examination. It was stated in the letter which was addressed to Lieutenant Zipper, dated 10 August 1943 and admitted in evidence, that the retained office records indicated that no collections on Form1389 were made from Captain Molyneux as sales officer for Detachment Headquarters Squadron, VIII Air Force Service Command, during the period 16 October to 31 December 1942, and that the-first collections deposited with the office to his credit were made on or about 20 January 1943. It was further stated therein that the examination disclosed that no collections were made during the period 16 October to 31 December 1942 from any sales officers/Form 389 for credit to anyunit in the seven separate amounts set forth therein. The seven‘amounts corresponded to the seven totals appearing on prosecutlorh Exhibits B - H (R33-35J Pros.Ex.J).
Warrant Officer Junior Grade Russell H, Dawson, Finance Department SOS (Cheltenham) testified that under the post exchange system in effect during October, November and December 1942, the commanding officer of any organization would designate a sales officer for the organization who would requisition supplies from a quartermaster depot. ' This officer would receive a tally-out representing the supplies drawn, one copy of which would be retained by the organization and one copy of which 'would be sent to the finance department, SOS where it was checked and filed with the account of the sales officer concerned. The sales officer would send payments to the finance department accompanied by WD QMC Form 389, a copy of which was placed in the individual file of the sales officer. The
“ 4 "
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(ID
finance office at Widening was under the "office administrator" of the finance office, SOS. If payment for post exchange supplies was made to any finance office under -the jurisdiction of witness' office, the records of his office would normally show such payment because copies of the cash collection voucher should be forwarded to the finance office, SOS from the office where the money was paid. Mr. Dawson further testified that the. seven i&lly-outs admitted in evidence (Pros.Exs. B - H) had been on file in his office. Two of the seven belonged to Captain Molyneux' account. The records of-the finance office,.SOS did not contain the name of a sales officer for the detachment concerned before Captain Molyneux; Also, according to the records of his office the first payment on behalf of the organization involved was made by Captain Molyneux on 27 January 194-3 in the sum of 82 pounds, 1 shilling and 9 pence which amount was the total of a tally-out dated 18 January 1943 (which was not introduced in evidence). A survey of the account made up at the finance office, SOS for the period 7 November 1942 to 23 April 1943, disclosed that the unit concerned received post exchange supplies valued at 899 pounds, no shillings, 1 pence and that there had been received in payment of this amount 593 pounds, 16 shillings, 3 pence leaving a difference unaccounted for of 305 pounds, 3 shillings, 10 pence. It could not be determined that the seven tally-outs admitted in evidence as Exhibits B - H covering the period 7 November 1942 - 3d December 1942 were actually the ones remaining unpaid, because there was no requirement that payments be allocated to any particular tally-outs. However, the unpaid sum of 305 pounds, 3 shillings, 10 pence approximated the total of. the seven exhibits B - H (304 pounds, 13 shillings, 8 pence), the latter sum being the amount alleged in the Specification (R28-33)+ .
4.	For the defense, accused testified that about 15 October 1942, he "took over the handling of the post exchange" from a Sergeant Daer.
He received a letter from Lieutenant Krieger authorizing him to draw the supplies and for the first two weeks obtained the supplies at Regents Parks for which he paid cash (R38-39)- He then received notice from Regents Park that the supplies would thereafter be obtainable at Victoria Docks and that a new system would be established 1 November. From then on he made out his requisitions r took them to 110 Commercial Road, went from there to the Victoria Docks where he drew goods on the basis of the tally-out slips which he signed. He put the goods on sale, "rationed them out to the boys" and received payment (R38-40). , On Thursday nights or Friday mornings he would sell out all the remaining supplies bn hand, fill out Forms No. 389 (sales slips) which he had signed by either Captain Molyneux or Lieutenant Krieger, whichever ona was in charge of post exchange supplies at the tima, place 4 copies of the sales slips and the, money in an envelope addressed to the finance officer at Widewing which he placed in his basket for delivery by courier (R38-40). No receipts were obtained from the courier for the envelope and its contents (R41). The money consisted mostly of paper currency and a very small amount in silver (R44). About 2 days later there would be returned to him from Widewing one receipted copy of the sales slip signed by the
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(12)
CONFIDENTIAL
finance officer, and accused’s copies of the tally-outs. He kept these papers and the copies of his requisitions in a ledger book in his wall- ' locker, together with "*** my copies showing who I sold supplies to" (R38-41), During November and December (1942) he forwarded about seven such cash payments in this maimer (R43)* He, paid and received receipts for all bills which he owed for post exchange goods (R4l). '
About 1 January 1943, accused was relieved from supply duty and put.in charge of the squadron as acting first sergeant, -He turned over to his successor, Sergeant Anderson, all supplies on hand, "filled up my last sales slips, turned them in and cleared up all supplies" (R39). About 1 February (1943) a Sergeant Belcher became acting first sergeant and asked for his ledger book to use for another purpose. Accused gave him the book after he removed his receipts, papers and the first few sheets of the book in which he had kept his records (R4l)-» He destroyed his receipts during the latter part of May (1943) (R38,42). Accused never reported an operating J.OSS, He was never asked by Captain Molyneux or Lieutenant Krieger how much money was being forwarded (R40), nor were any inquiries made by an officer, as to whether he maintained any records (R44) •	1
Lieutenant James E. Brown, Jr.., Air Corps, 86th Air Transport Squadron, at the request of Captain Molyneux, checked the tally-outs "against the payments of finance at Widowing". There were no books, to check at the post but he. did have at the post duplicate copies of the -requisitions and tally-outs and "duplicate copies of the payments into the finance office of Widewing"• He checked receipts covering a period beginning in. October (1942) until June (1943) and established a shortage (R45). •
. Sergeant John W. Belcher, Technical Sergeant, 86th Air Transport Squadron, confirmed accused's testimony that he had given his ledger book, to Belcher after removing two or three pages (R46).
Sergeant. Gove, recalled as a witness for the defense testified that between 15 October and 31 December 1942, mail was taken to Widewing from the post by a courier who would collect it, but that no record of any nature was kept of the outgoing mail (R47).
«
■ - •
. Sergeant Walter H. Holden, 86th Air Transport Squadron, who acted as one of the couriers to Widewing during October, November and December 1942 testified that he never picked up in the supply- room an envelope containing loose silver money and that he would have known if an envelope did contain money of this nature (R49).
Captain George A. Seamens, Civil Disbursing Finance Officer, APO 887 (London) testified that an examination of the records of his office for the months of November and December 1942 and January 1943 showed that no payments for the post exchange goods in question had been received in
— 6 •*
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(13)
his office, and that his office would have no records of any payments made to the finance office at Widewing (R50).
Sergeant McCall, recalled as a witness for the d efense testified that over the long period of time during which he had known accused he had never seen him have "any more than what a sergeant would receive for pay"* Asked if he had known accused to spend or "flash" a great deal of money, he replied that he "used'to go on some 'pretty big benders'" (R5l).
Mrs. Eileen Elkins, accused's wife met him in November 1942 and they were married in June 1943* Neither she nor accused ever had any unusually large sums of money and they just managed to pay their way. During the month previous to trial (August 1943) his pay was stopped and she was destitute. She had borrowed the rent and repaid it from her own wages. She had returned to "lodgings" and could not even pay her bill for the present week (R52).
5.	Sergeants George B. Baker, Russell W. Politz, and Royce A. Bradrick, all of the 86th Air Transport Squadron, called as witnesses in rebuttal by the prosecution, acted as couriers during October, November and December 1942. Baker and Politz testified that they would have known if an envelope given them for delivery had contained metal currency, but that they could not recall the delivery of such an envelope to Widewing (R53-54,56). Sergeant Bradrick could not recall whether or not he delivered any mail addressed to the finance officer at Widewing (R57).
6.	At the close of the case for the prosecution the defense moved for a finding of not guilty on the grounds of insufficient evidence (R35)• The motion was "overruled" (R37). The denial of the motion, was clearly justified as the prosecution had then presented sufficient evidence to establish a prima facie case and to warrant the court's action in considering such evidence when making its ultimate findings.
Paragraph 2 of the review of the Staff Judge Advocate, VIII Air Force Service Command, contains a discussion concerning irregularities contained in the record of trial and the evidence. Further comment thereon is unnecessary, as is a detailed comment upon certain rulings of the law member which, although erroneous, did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused.
7.	It is alleged in the Specification that accused, at. AAF 575, APO 635, from about 15 October i942 to about 18 January 1943 feloniously embezzled "A304. 13. 8. ($1229.40) the same having been received by him in his capacity as the non-commissioned officer in charge of said Post Exchange". The Specification varies from the form set forth in the Manual for Courts<-Martial, 1928 (Form No. 95, Appendix 4, p.250) in that it does not contain any allegations either as to the ownership of the money involved, or the name of the person who entrusted the money to accused.
- 7 -
confidential

CONFIDENTIAL
(15)
'that the error complained of has injuriously affected the substantial rights of an accused" (Underscoring supplied),
"No finding or sentence need be- disapproved solely because a specification is defective if the facts alleged therein and reaspnablv implied therefrom constitute an offense, unless it appears from the record that the accused was in fact misled by such defect, or that, his substantial rights were in fact otherwise injuriously affected thereby, ***."
(MCM., 1928, par,87i, p.74) (Underscoring supplied).
The counterpart of Article of War 37 contained in the United States Criminal Code is as follows;
"No indictment found and presented by a grand jury in any district or other court of the’
United States shall be deemed insufficient, nor shall the trial, judgment or other proceeding thereon be affected by reason of any defect or imperfection in matter of form only, which shall not tend to the prejudice of the defendant, R.S. sec.1025." (18 USCA, sec.556, p.34).
"An indictment'or information is sufficient under this section,’ if the offense be described with sufficient’ clearness to’ show a violation of law, to enable accused to know the nature and cause of the accusation,
' and to plead a judgment, if one be rendered, in bar of further prosecution for the same offense". (18 USCA, Note 27, p.43).
"An indictment which will enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended is sufficient". (Ibid),
"Mistakes in expressing the substance of a crime, if the meaning can be understood, will
.be looked upon as formal defects". (18 USCA,
Note 28, p,A4) (Underscoring supplied).
The Specification in the case under consideration definitely sets forth the place where the offense was committed, the dates concerned, and the amount involved. It is further alleged that accused feloniously
- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(16)
CONFIDENTIAL
embezzled by fraudulently converting to his own use the amount described which was received by him as the non-commissioned officer in charge of the Post Exchange. Thus, the capacity in which accused received the money stated to have been embezzled was also alleged. The allegations contained in the Specification were sufficiently detailed in ‘nature as to enable accused adequately to prepare his defense and to obviate ‘any risk of double jeopardy. The "facts alleged therein and reasonably implied therefrom" constituted an offense despite the absence of an allegation as to ownership and a more detailed description 'of the manner in which the money was entrusted to him. It cannot reasonably be claimed that accused was misled by any defects contained in the specification. The defense made no objection with relation to the sufficiency of the allegations. In fact, the sole contention by the accused was in substance that ‘he had forwarded all payments received for post exchange supplies to the finance officer at Widewing, but that he had destroyed the receipts showing that such payments had been received. In view of the foregoing the provisions of Article of War 37 are clearly applicable. The allegations of the Specification are legally sufficient. (Moore v. United States, 160 U.S. 268, AO L. Ed., 422; Grin v. Shine, 187 U.S. 181, 47 L. Ed., 130).
8.	Accused testified that he was in charge of the post exchange during the period involved, ‘that he’ purchased and sold supplies, and received money therefor. He further testified that lie had paid for all supplies purchased, had sent about seven payments to the finance officer at"Widewing and had received from that officer receipts for all payments made. He destroyed the receipts about four or five months after he had been relieved as noncommissioned officer in charge of the post exchange. The seven tally-outs, the total amount of which represented the sum alleged to have been embezzled were found on file in the finance office, SOS at Cheltenham. No payments had been received at the finance offices at Widewing, London or Cheltenham. The finance office, SOS at Cheltenham would normally have records of payments made to finance offices under its jurisdiction as such office^ should forward copies of their collection vouchers. Whether payments had actually ^ been made was a question of fact for determination by the court and the Board of Review will nqt disturb that^finding, The evidence was legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of the offense alleged.
(CM 210942, Funderburke).
9.	Attached to the record of trial is an "Appeal from Decision of.
Trial by General Court-Martial" signed by defense counsel and addressed to the Commanding General, VIII Air Force Service Command, APO #633, U.S.Army.
10.	The charge sheet shows that accused enlisted at Augusta, Maine,
2 January 1941 for three years.
11.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review i3 of the opinion tl^at the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty
- 10 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(17)
and the sentence. The court was legally constituted and no errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed at the trial-.

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
#(19)
