#(301)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD QF REVIEW ETO 1042 -UNITED STATES j
)
Private LEO L. COLLETTE	!
(31026439), 1686th Ordnance J Supply and Uaintenance	J
Company (Aviation), 2d	)
Bombardment Division.	)
27 JAN 1944
VIII BO&BBR COMMAND
Trial by G.C.M., convened at US AAF Station # 104, APO 634, 25 October 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for six months. 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U. S. ARUT.
OPINION by the BOARD CP REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge cf said Branch Office.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE: Violation of the 94th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Private	Leo L. Collette,
1686th Ordnance Supply and Uaintenance Co.
(Avn) Headquarters, AAF-123,' for the purpose of obtaining approval, allowance and payment of a family allowance under the Servicemen's Dependents Allowance Act of 1942, did, at Headquarters, AAF-595, on or about 12 October 1942, execute and present a certain writing which the said Leo L. Collette, as he, the said Leo L. Collette, then knew, contained a statement that Barbara Ann Collette was his child, which statement was false and fraudulent in that the said Leo L. Collette had no child or children, and was then known by the said Leo L. Collette to be false and fraudulent, and by reason cf said false and fraudulent representations did obtain money of the value of 9156.00 from the United States Government.
- 1 -
..CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(302)
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.
He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for three years. The reviewing authority approved only so much of the sentence as provided for dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for six months, suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement, and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U.S.
Army, as the place of confinement.	,
The result of the trial wan promulgated in General Court-Martial Orders No. 75, Headquarters VIII Bomber Command, APO 634 dated 16 November 1943.
3.	For the purpose of consideration of the issue involved in the case, the pertinent evidence for the prosecution may be summarized briefly as follows:
On 12 October 1942, at APO 635, New York, New York, accused executed a sworn application for family allowances under the Servicemen's Dependency Allowance Act of 1942 (Vf.D., A.G.O. Form No.625) listing as Class A dependents his wife, Geraldine Thelma Collette, and a child, Barbara Ann Collette, who was stated therein to be residing at his wife's address, and to have been born 6 March 1942. The application was made for family allowances "Commencing June 1942" and contained the further statement that the marriage of accused and his wife occurred 9 December 1941. It was requested therein that checks be made payable to his wife (Stip.R5a; Pros.Ex.1.)
After accused had been properly warned of his rights and had read all the documents in the case, Including Pros. Ex.l, he made the following signed statement to the officer Investigating the charges:
"1. I, Private Leo Lawrence Collette, 31026439, did on 12 October, 1942 apply for family allowances for one child, Barbara Ann Collette, who did not exist. I knew this to be a false claim in that I had no children and wish to make arrangements to pay the money owed the United States government which I have received by reason of this claim.
2. I further affirm that the Documentary Evidence contained in this file was presented to me for my approval and that such evidence is in conformity with the facts.
Leo Lawrence Collette /s/Leo Lawrence Collette
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(R8-9)
CONFIDENTIAL
.... .......................................... .	(303)
4.	At the close of the case for the prosecution the defense moved for "a not guilty verdict" on the ground that the confession was unsupported by any other evidence, that the prosecution (failed
to prove) that accused had no child, nor had it submitted any evidence that there was an allotment, or that the allotment had actually been paid (Rll). The motion was denied by the court (R12).
5.	For the purposes of consideration of the merits of the case, it is deemed unnecessary to set forth the evidence introduced by the defense.
6.	Recalled as a witness by the court, Captain William J.
Bromley, Ordnance Department, accused's commanding officer was asked upon what information he had preferred the charges. The defense objected to his reply that "Captain Turley told me about the case", and the objection was sustained. He further testified that he had received the papers introduced in evidence from a former officer of the organization, had gone over the papers with the officer, and had talked with accused. Asked by a member of the court whether he was sure, when he preferred the charges, that accused did not have a child when he applied for the allotment, Captain Bromley testified in the affirmative. The member then asked the witness if he had assured himself by investigation and correspondence that accused did not have
a child when he applied for the allotment. The defense then entered an objection which was overruled but the question was unanswered (R15-16). This is all that the record discloses outside of the confession and application for allowances.
7.	The question presented for consideration is whether the prosecution presented sufficient evidence of the corpus delicti to corroborate and support the confession of accused.
"An accused can not be convicted legally upon his unsupported confession. A court may not consider the confession of an accused as evidence against him unless there be in the record other evidence. either direct or circumstantial, that the offense charged has probably been committed: in other words. there must be evidence of the corpus delicti other than the confession itself. * * * This evidence of the corpus delicti need not be sufficient of itself to convince beyond reasonable doubt that the offense charged has been committed, or to cover every element of the charge, or to connect the accused with the offense. Examples:	If	unlawful	homicide	is
charged, evidence of the death of the person alleged to have been killed coupled with evidence of circumstances indicating the probability that he was
3	-
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(304)
"unlawfully killed will satisfy the rule and authorize consideration of the confession if otherwise admissible. In a case, of alleged larceny or in a case of alleged unlawful sale evidence that the property in question was missing under circumstances indicating in the first case that it.was probably stolen, and in the second case that it was probably unlawfully sold, would be a compliance with the rule." (1CM,1928, par.llAs, p.^(Underscoring supplied).
"The corpus delicti need not be proved aliunde the confession beyond a reasonable doubt, or by a preponderance of evidence, or at all, but Borne evidence corroborative of the confession must be produced, and such evidence must touch the corpus delicti. Where accused was charged with larceny of a riding crop from a post exchange and confessed the crime, the require- ' ments of this rule of law are met by evidence tending to show, though not absolutely proving, that the crop had been a part of the stock of the post exchange and had been wrongfully taken therefrom (CM 202213 (1934). Die.Ops.JAG.. 1912-1940, sec.395 (U)» p.208) (Underscoring supplied).
The principle enunciated in the foregoing case was reaffirmed in a recent case, CM 240329 (1943), Bui.JAG, Vol II, No.10, October 1943, see.395(ll)» P.377.
In CM 120063 (1918) it was held thatt
"The general rule in this country is that the corpus delicti cannot be established by the confession of the accused unsupported by corroborative evidence. Without such corroborative proof of the corpus delicti, the confession of the accused is inadmissible in evidence, but such corroborative proof need not be conclusive (Wharton1s Criminal Law.
Vol.I, par.357).	The testimony of another
soldier that he placed his money in a pocket in his shirt, put the shirt under his pillow, went to sleep on it, and in the morning the money was gone, together with the evidence that the cards and letters placed with the money were found on the foot of his, (accused^) locker, is sufficient corroborative evidence to establish the corpus delicti (Dig.0ps.JAG.,
1912-1940, par.395 (ll)» p.207) (Underscoring supplied).
- 4 •
p.nwnnrwmi
CONFIDENTIAL
(305)
It is alleged in substance that for the purpose of obtaining a family allowance under the Servicemen's Dependents Allowance Act of 1942y accused executed and presented a certain writing containing a statement that one Barbara Ann Collette was his child, which statement was known by accused to be false and fraudulent in that he had no child, and that by reason of such false representation he obtained $156 from the United States Government. The prosecution Introduced evidence that he did in fact execute a sworn application for family allowances on the date alleged, which contained among other things a statement that he had as class A dependents a wife and a child, Barbara Ann Collette, who was born 6 March 1942. The prosecution then introduced in evidence a confession by accused in which he Btated that on the date alleged he did apply for family allowances for one child, Barbara Ann Collette who did not exist, and that he knew it was a false claim in that he had no children. He further stated therein that he desired to make arrangements to repay the money received to the United States Government.
The prosecution utterly failed to produce any evidence of the corpus delicti to support and corroborate the confession of accused. Apart from the confession, no competent evidence whatsoever was introduced by the prosecution concerning the alleged falsity of accused's statement. or concerning his alleged knowledge that the statement was false and fraudulent. Also, aside from the vague statement in his confession concerning repayjtent there was no evidence that accused received the $156 alleged, or any other amount. The record of trial contains no other competent evidence "either direct or circumstantial, that the offense charged has probably been committed." "* * * some evidence corroborative of the confession must be produced, and such evidence must touch the corpus delicti." Hence, in the present case it is not a question of the evidence of the corpus delicti being legally insufficient in character to support and corroborate the confession of accused for there is no such evidence whatsoever. The mere Introduction in evidence of the application Itself wherein accused stated that one of his class A dependents was a child who was born 6 March 1942, cannot be deemed evidence of the corpus delicti.
The document appeared an its face to be true and genuine and the prosecution introduced no competent evidence other than the confession to show that the statement contained therein was false and fraudulent.
Accused's commanding officer, Captain Bromley, recalled as a witness by the court and questioned by a member thereof, testified that when he preferred the charges he was sure that accused did not have a child when he applied for.the allotment. The defense did not object to this question but did object when the witness was asked by the member whether he had assured himself by investigation and correspondence that accused did not have a child when he made the application. The objection was overruled, but the question was not answered.
y
An examination of his testimony shows that the witness '	'
conclusion was obviously based upon pure hearsay, and was manifestly "
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(306)
incompetent and inadmissible in evidence. There was no evidence in the record of trial of any competent factual basis for the conclusion. Since evidence was, moreover, elicited upon questioning by a member of the court on his own initiative. In view of the absence of any competent evidence whatsoever touching the corpus delicti which corroborated and supported the confession of accused, the admission of the conclusion was highly prejudicial to the substantial rights of accused and any failure to object to the admission of such testimony did not waive or cure its incompetency. (CM 211829, Parnell. diB. op. by King J.A., followed by the Secretary of War upon recommendation of The Judge Advocate General (Dig. Ops. JAG 1912-1940. par.395 (21), p.2l6)j CM 178446, Dig. Ops. JAG 1912-1940, par 395 (21), p.216; CM 238557, Bui. JAG. Vol.II, Ho.8, August 1943, par.419 (2),' pp.307-308; CM ETO 527 Astrella.)
8.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.	1
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(307)
let Ind.
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOOSA. 27 JAN 1944 TOi Comaanding General, ETOOSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.
1. Herewith transmitted for your action tinder Article of War 50$- as amended ty the act of 20 August 1937 (50 Stat. 72A} 10 U.S.C., 1522) and as further amended by Public Law 693* 77th Congress, 1 August 1942, is the record of trial in the case of Private LEO L. COLLETTE (31026439), 1686th Ordnance Supply and Maintenance Company (Aviation), 2d Bombardment Division.
2. I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review, and for the reasons stated therein recommend that the findings of guilty and the sentence be vacated and that all rights, privileges and property of which accused may have been deprived by reason of such findings and sentence so vacated, be restored.
3. Inclosed is a form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is a draft GCMO for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the record of trial with required copies of GCMO,
3 Inclsi Incl.l Ind.2 Ind. 3
C. McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
Record of Trial Form of Action Draft GCMO
(Findings and sentence vacated. GCMD 6, ETO,- 4 Feb 1944)
nntinnFNTiM
/
#(309)
