#(311)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations
APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW
2 5 FEB 1944
ETO 1413
UNITED
v.
STATES
)
)
)
)
WESTERN BASE,SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
Private FRANCISCO R. LONGORIA, JR., (38073700), Company B, A9th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot.
)
)
)
)
)
)
Trial hy G.C.M., convened at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, 19 January 1944* Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. Eastern-Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks,
)
)
Beekman, New York.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	6lst	Article	of	War.
Specification:	In	that Private Francisco R.
Longoria, Company B, 49th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire,
England, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his organization at Whittington
> Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, from on or about 1830 hours' 8 January 1944 to on or about 2330 hours 8 January 1944.
CHARGE II:	Violation	of	the	64th	Article	of	War.
Specification:	In	that ******** *t did, on
the Lichfield-Tamworth Road, near Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 8 January 1944, strike JAMES A. K3XIAN, Colonel, Cavalry, his- superior officer, who was then in the execution of his office on the body and face with his hands and feet.
1
(312)
He pleaded guilty to Charge I and its Specification, not guilty to Charge II and its Specification and was found guilty of both charges and their specifications. Evidence-.was introduced of one previous conviction by special court-martial for absence without leave for eight days from camp in violation of Article of War 61, He was sentenced to-be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 25 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, reduced the period of confinement to 20 years, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the.provisions of Article of War 50£.
3. Accused pleaded guilty to Charge I and its Specification (R5).
The evidence introduced with reference thereto, showing his absence without proper leave-during the period alleged, fully supported the plea of guilty (Rll,18,20} Pros.Ex.4-) (CM ETO 1266, Shipman).
4-. The record contains substantial evidence that accused and Private Lemuel G. Poe (34-703811), committed-a deliberate and unprovoked battery upon Golonel James A. Kilian, Commanding 10th Replacement Depot, United States Army, their superior officer, who was then in the execution of his office, as alleged in Charge II and its Specification (R13-17). Poe was, tried separately for this offense (and for absence without leave) on the day previous to the trial of accused herein. The evidence in both cases i3 in effect identical. Reference is made to the approved holding in the Poe case (CM ETO 1360, Poe) for a description of the attack upon Colonel Kilian.
5.	(a) Accused was identified as one of Colonel Kilian's assailants by evidence independent of the testimony of Colonel Kilian. However, the accused by voluntarily speaking at the trial enabled Colonel Kilian to make a positive identification of him as one of the two attackers. Accused thereby personally and voluntarily waived his immunity under the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution (CM ETO 1360. Poe, and authorities therein cited)•
(b) Accused and Poe at request of defense counsel exhibited themselves before the .court while. Colonel Kilian was testifying for the purpose of demonstrating inaccuracy in the witnesses' testimony (R25). Manifestly no question concerning the regularity of such action can arise since it was initiated by the defense.
6.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 25 years eight months of age and that he was inducted at Fort Sam Houston, Texas 9 January 1942.
He had no prior service.
(313)
7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the accused and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review-is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the approved sentence. Confinement in a United States Disciplinary Barracks is authorized (AW 42).
Judge Advocate
Judge Advocate
(SICK IN HOSPITAL)	Judge	Advocate
- 3 -
(3 14)
1st Ind,
o 5 ppn IQ44
TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.	1	1	TO:	Commanding
Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515, U.S, Army.
1.	In the case of Private FRANCISCO R. LONGORIA, JR., (38073700), Company B, 49th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the' Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50s-, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	Attention is invited to the designated place of confinement, which should be changed to the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York (Cir. #210, sec.VI, par,2a, 14 September 1943 &3 amended by Cir. #331> sec.II, par.2, 21 December 1943). This nay be done in the published general court-martial order.
...;*	3. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office,
'they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement.
—The file number of the record-in this office is ETO 1413. For convenience of 'inference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order:
- IfcEO 1413).
E. C. McNEIL,
'Brigadier General, United States Army, , Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(315)
