#(69)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
26	NOV 1942
Board of Review.
ETO 82.
UNITED STATES v.
Tech. Fifth Grade LAWRENCE H. McKENZIE (39389670), Company "G", 1st Armored Division.
1ST ARMORED DIVISION
Trial by G. C. M. convened at Castlewe11an, County Down, Northern Ireland, October 20, 19-42. Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances and confinement at hard labor for the term of his natural life. Federal Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, is designated as the place of confinement.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and IDE, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused was tried upon the following charge and specification:
CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	92nd Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Technician Fifth Grade,
Lawrence H. McKenzie, Company "G" First Armored Regiment, did, at Upper Camp Ballywillwill, Northern Ireland, 'on or about' October A, 1942 with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation kill one Mary Jane Martin, a human being by strangulating her with his hands.
He pleaded not guilty to, and was found guilty of, the 6harge and Specification No evidence of previous conviction* was introduced. He was sentenced to dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for the term of his natural life.
The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action under AW 5OT.
3.	The evidence in pertinent part shows:
The accused on Sunday October 4, 1942, the date of the alleged crime, was a member of Company "G", 1st Armored Division, stationed at Camp Ballywillwill, Northern Ireland, (R.4). At about 7:00 p.m. on that date he was playing cards in his barracks with Privates George A. Redd, Chester Sabinski and Edward Harris. Accused left them at abqut 7:30 p.m., and Private Harris left about twenty minutes later (R.6)• They had all been drinking'whiskey (R.31). The accused returned to his barracks at about 8:30 p.m. but witness Redd doesn't know whether or not he retired at that time, but he saw him the following morning. Accused had a cut lip and stated that Private Harris had hit him. Private Harris had a skinned forehead and explained that he had had a fight with a civilian (R.7). A woman named Mary Jane Martin was living alone in a cottage approximately 150 feet from t&e Inrt occupied by accused and others (R.10, Exh.A). She was a deaf-mute £act3»a*3t£jfcfc years of age (R.14) and was seen alive on Sunday afternoon at about 4:30 o'clock at which time she was standing in her door and "appeared as usual" (R.12). At about ten o'clock on the morning of October 7, 1942, Sarah Higgen, a neighbor, noticing that no smoke was coming from her cottage, went to investigate and found Mary Jane Martin lying dead in her bed-room and notified the police (R.13, 14).
James Ellis Reid. District Inspector, R.U.C.,, Newcastle, Northern Ireland, arrived at the cottage of deceased at 11:05*a.m., on October 7, 1942, and found deceased lying on the floor with her face in a pool of blood. She was fully dressed, except for her knickers which were lying on the bed.
Her clothes were pulled up as far as her stomach. The iron support of the bed was broken and the bedclothes on the bed were in a disordered state. There was one window in the room (R.21) and the lower half of the window-frame consisting of eight panes of glass had been removed and was on the ground outside the window. A plant was growing on the window ledge inside. Its stem and leaves were pushed outwards indicating that some one had passed through the window from the inside. Deceased's upper denture was lying on the bed and had a spot of blood on it. Her lower denture was on the floor. Her clothing was rolled upwards at her back and neatly turned up underneath indicating that it was probably raised by herself. There was no blackout up at the windows (R.22).
Dr. J. A. L. Johnson, physician and pathologist, of Londonderry, Northern Ireland, testified that he had made an examination of the body of the deceased on October 8, 1942, and that he found that most of the external injuries were on the neck. There were abrasions, lacerations and bruises on both sides of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscles. There was also quite a deep scalp wound on the left side of the head.
The face was somewhat congested in appearance and the litis were somewhat swollen - an indication of suffocation or. asphyxia (R.15). The scalp wound, in his opinion, was caused by a severe blow with a bottle or some blunt instrument but could have been caused from the weight of her body in falling "provided it hit something". There were no signs of rape present but bruises on the legs, thighs and shoulders indicated that a considerable
(71)
struggle had taken place. In his opinion the deceased had been dead between three and four days and death was caused by asphyxiation, caused by manual strangulation (R.16),
There were no eye-witnesses of the crime - although there was considerable circumstantial evidence pointing to the accused1s implication, the details of which we deem it unnecessary to recite in view of his confession, which was made voluntarily after being duly cautioned by Inspector Reid. The accused’s statement was reduced to writing by Inspector Reid and signed by the accused and at the trial was read to the court, received as an exhibit and incorporated in the record of trial (R.23).
The accused’s signed statement is as follows -
Statement of T.5 LAWRENCE McKENZIE, ''G» Company, 3rd Battalion,
1st Armored Regiment, made to District Inspector J. E. Reid at Ballykinler, on the 17th October 1942 after being cautioned*
"I have been cautioned by District Inspector Reid in the presence of my officer that anything I say will be taken down in writing and may be used in evidence against me afterwards,
I am guilty of that crime the murdering of that Martin woman. On the Sunday night I saw her in the doorway of her home . It was then dark. I was trying to talk to her and then we went to the bedroom. Before I went to the bedroom I wrote on a piece of paper something to the effect "Let us go into the bedroom".
She agreed. I think I put down two florins. She had one in her hand and the other was on the shelf or some place. I went to the bedroom with her and got into bed with her. The bed post broke. There was no light on. After the bed post broke she started to make a noise or tried to make a noise. There was a struggle over the bed and in the room I choked her with both my hands. I held her by the throat until she stopped moving. It was about dark at the time and I could see what I was doing. She was dead when I left the room.
The body was then half on the bed and half out of it.
I took out through the back window. When I went out I found I had left one glove behind. I went back for the glove and I then thought of the note which I had written.
My glove was under the bed and she was then on the floor and I do not think there was any life in her. I got the glove and the note and cleared. I left this time by way of the front door. I was as drunk as could be when I went to the house first. When I discovered what I had done I came to my senses. She did not resent me having intercourse with her and she took off her pants herself. She was quite willing for intercourse when she saw the money. I have destroyed my gloves as there was blood on them. I got rid of the boots I was
82
"wearing on the Monday after committing the crime.
I am sorry that this has happened and it was caused by drink. This statement has been read over by me and is all true. I understand it can be used in evidence against me for this crime.
LAWRENCE McKENZIE. •	»	'
The defense offered the testimony of Lt, Col. Louis V. Hightower, Commanding Officer, 3rd Battalion, 1st Armored Regiment, who testified that accused had acted as Provost Sergeant since July 25, 1942 (R.26) j that witness knew accused as well as he knew any soldier in the Battalion; that he was not an habitual drinker and that he had never had occasion to punish him for drinking; that, accused's performance of duty had always been of an excellent character and his attention to duty had been superior.
That if he were found guilty and needed punishment the witness would be glad to have him back in the. battalion after he had served that punishment.
The accused then at his own request, after being fully&dvised of his rights by the President of the Court, was sworn as a witness and testified (R.27) that he went to Mary Martin's house that night for sexual intercourse.
That he killed Mary Jane Martin but not with malice aforethought or deliberately but that he was drunk at the time. That the confession which he gave Inspector Reid was correct. That he at first "figured on making off and getting into Southern Ireland and maybe getting away from there some way. I changed my mind and came back and took it." He then appeared voluntarily to make his confession and turned his revolver over to Lt. Fitzgibbon (R.28).
Upon cross-examination the accused testified as follows:-
Q. In your statement that you had given to Constable Reid—Inspector Reid— on the 17th of October, you stated about the bed breaking. What took place at that time?
A. I don't quite understand your question.
Q. In your confession to Inspector Reid on the 17th of October, at Camp Ballykinler,—had you promised to appear there to aid him in the furtherance of this case? Had there been an appointment for you to be there?
A. There had.
Q. Now, when you appeared, in your statement you spoke of the bed being broken. What took place at that time?
A. We were on the bed at that time having sexual intercourse,
Q. And when the bed post broke, what happened? (R.28)
A. I got excited and didn't know what was going on. I was drunk.
82
(7
Q. You heard the testimony here in court relative to the bruises and scalp lacerations and the like?
A. I did.
Q. Relate to the court as to how they came upon the tody of the deceased.
A. I don't know how those on the head came upon the body of the deceased, but those on the neck were probably made by me.
Q. You made the ones on the head?
A. I don't know.
Q. Did you?
A. I didn't that I know of.
Q. You spoke of gloves having blood on. How did your gloves get blood on?
A. That I don't know. I didn't notice it until just a couple of days ago.
Q. Did you have your gloves on at the time?
A. Not that I know of. I couldn't have or I wouldn't have gone back for the other one.
Q. YiTiat was your object in disposing of the shoes?
A. I really don't know. I didn't think that there was no foot prints at that time.
Q, The shoes in—Exhibit "D" here—which the witness testified you gave him— were those the shoes you wore that evening?
A. If he said I give him the shoes, those were the ones.
Q. Y/hy did you give your shoes away if you didn't know there were any foot prints?
A. Personally I like that witness and I gave him the shoes for that reason.
Q. '.Thy didn't you give him a shirt?
A. I didn't have a shirt to spare.
Q. Did you have shoes to spare?
A. I could always get some more.
Defense:	The	defense objects to the line of questioning in that the witness
has already stated why he gave the shoes to the foreman of the constructic gang.
Law Member:	Objection overruled.
Q. V7hen you went back to get your gloves, at what hour was this?
A. I couldn't say the exact hour.
Q. When you went in and the bed broke—at what hour on Sunday was that?
A. It was about dark.
Q. Then how much later was it? What did you do after that—after you left bj the window as you stated? (R.29).
A. I walked around for a while down below the trees south of the building anc around in back of the boiler room for I don't know how long, and I reached in my pocket to get my glove and I notice one was gone and I thought I had left it there and I went back after it.
Q. VJhen you went back after it did you notice any heel prints around?
A. No, I didn't. I never thought of it.
Q. Yfaere was Private Harris?
A. I do not know.
Q. Had you a fight with Private Harris on October L,—Sunday?
A. I had that evening. It must have been nine or ten o'clock.
Q. After the death of Miss Mary Martin?
A. Yes.
8
(74)
Q. V/hat was the fight about?
A. He thought I was sonfe civilian.
Q. Where did the fight take place?
A. Between the road going into camp and Barney McVey's store.
Q. Who put the cut on your lip?
A. Harris, sir.
Q. Through all this violent struggle, indicated by the wounds on the deceased, and through the disorderly condition of the room, you received no injury whatsoever?
A. None whatsoever.
Q. Was the deceased a strong woman?
A. I don’t know.
Q. What type of struggle went on that her teeth would be lying under the bed— one set of them, and another portion on top of the bed—what type of struggle went on to bring that about?
A. That I don't know.
Q. Do you know how she sustained the injury in the head?
A. No, I do not. (R.30).
Private George J. Redd, Co. G, 1st Armored Regiment, testified that he had been playing cards with accused up to the hour of 7:30 p.mj they had been drinking whisky; the accused was "pretty tight - pretty full" when he left the barracks; he was able to walk and appeared to know what he was doing. Witness had seen accused in that condition only once before. (R.31, 32).
Private Edward Harris, Co. G, 1st Armored Regiment, testified that upon completion of work the detachment went up to the barracks, played cards for awhile and then went to the store to secure supper. Privates Redd, Sabinski, accused and the witness returned to the barracks at about 7:00 p.m., where they drank whisky. Witness left the barracks about 8:00 p.m. About 6:00 n.m., witness and accused had a fight. Accused was "plumb drunk"
(R.33). All of this group drank pretty heavily during the afternoon (R.33,34).
A. Ltirder is defined thus:
"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. 'Unlawful' means without legal justification or excuse****. Among the lesser offenses which may be included in a particular charge of murder are manslaughter, certain forms of assault and an attempt to cojomit murder.****" (M.C.M., sec. 148, pg. 162),
"Murder, as defined at common law, and by statutes simply declaratory thereof, consists in the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought." (29 C.J., sec. 59, pg. 1083).
"Murder, at common law, is the unlawful killing, by a person of sound memory and discretion, of any reasonable creature in being and under the peace of the State, with malice aforethought, either express or implied."
('Ninthrops' Military Law and Precedents (2nd Ed.)
sec. 1041, pg. 672).	82
(75)
The important element of murder, to-wit "malice aforethought" has been analyzed by authorities as follows
"The term malice. as ordinarily employed in criminal law, is a strictly legal term, meaning not personal spite or hostility but simply the wrongful intent essential to the commission of crime. When used, however, in connection •with the word ’aforethought' or 'prepense', in defining the particular crime of murder, it signifies the same evil intent, as the result of a determined purpose, premeditation, deliberation, or brooding, and therefore as indicating, in the view of the law, a malignant or depraved nature, or, as the early writer, Foster, has expressed it, 'a heart regardless of social duty, and fatally bent upon mischief.' The deliberate purpose need not have been long entertained; it is sufficient if it exist at the moment of the act. Malice aforethought i3 either 'express' or 'implied'; express, where the intent,
- as manifested by previous enmity, threats, the absence of any or sufficient provocation, etc., - is to take the li fe of the particular person killed, or, since a specific purpose to kill is not essential to constitute murder, to inflict upon him some excessive bodily injury which may naturally result in death; Implied. where the intent is to commit a felonious or unlawful act but not to kill or injure-the particular person****;" (Winthrops1 Military Lav/ and Precedents (2nd Ed.) sec. 10^1, pg.673).
"Malice or malice aforethought is the element which distinguishes mender at common law and, commonly, under the statutes defining murder, from other grades of homicides.****" (29 C.J., sec. 60, pg. 1084.).
"In its popular sense, the term 'malice' conveys the meaning of hatred, iiJ-will, or hostility toward another. In its legal sense, however, as it is employed in the description of murder, it. does not of necessity import ill-will towards the individual injured, but signifies rather a general malignant recklessness of the lives and safety of others, or a condition of the mind which shows a heart regardless of social duty and fatally bent on mischief; in other words, a malicious killing is where the act is done without legal justification, excuse, or extenuation and malice has been frequently, substantially so defined as consisting of the intentional doing of a wrongful act towards another without legal justification or excuse.****" (29 C.J., sec. 61, pg. 1085).
"Malice aforethought or malice prepense, which are the terms usually applied to the malice requisite in murder, is malice existing before the killing and acting as a cause of the killing. The term 'malice aforethought' imports premeditation. It has also been held to involve deliberation, although as to this there is contrary
82
(76)
"authority, but it does not involve deliberation or premeditation in the sense that it is required to exist for any appreciable length of time prior to the killing; it is sufficient that it exists before and at the time of the act. The courts frequently define malice aforethought in the same terms as are employed by other courts in defining malice, or use the terms inter-changeably, and some statutory definitions of murder entirely omit the expression. **-**" (29 C.J. sec. 62, pg. 1087).
****** Malice aforethought may exist when the act is unpremeditated. It may mean anyone or more of tin following states of mind preceding or coexisting with the act or omission by which death is caused:
An intention to cause the death of, or grievous bodily harm to, any person whether such person is the person actually killed or not (except when death is inflicted in the heat of sudden passion, caused by adequate provocation); knowledge that the act which causes death will probably cause the death of, or grievous bodily harm to, any person, whether such person is the person actually killed or not, although such knowledge is accompanied by indifference whether death or grievous bodily harm is caused or not by a wish that it'may not be caused; intent to commit any felony." (M.C.M., sec. 14.8, pg. 163).
5.	The distinction between murder and voluntary manslaughter is stated as follows:
"Manslaughter is distinguished from murder by the absence of deliberation and malice aforethought." (l Wharton's Criminal Law, sec. 423, pg. 64.0),
"Manslaughter is unlawful homicide without malice aforethought and is either voluntary or involuntary." (M.C.M., sec. 149, pg. 165).
"The passion which operates to reduce a killing to the grade of manslaughter is ordinarily created by rage or anger-, but it may result from other conditions of the mind rendering it incapable of cool reflection, such as fright or terror. It is obvious that a killing due to terror or fright may be closely akin to a killing in self-defense." (29 C.J., sec. 114, pg. 1127).
"At common law a killing ensuing from sudden transport of passion or heat of blood, if upon sudden combat, was also manslaughter, and the statutory definition of voluntary manslaughter has in some jurisdictions been made expressly to include a killing without malice in a sudden fray. However, a sudden combat is ordinarily considered upon the same footing as other
(77)
"provocations operating to create such passion as temporarily to unseat the judgment*" (29 Corpus Juris, sec., 115, pg. 1128),
"Manslaughter at common law was defined'to be the unlawful and felonious killing of another without any malice, either express or implied.**** Whether there be what is termed express malice or only implied malice, the proof to show either is of the same nature, viz., the circumstances leading up to and stirrounding the killing. The definition of the crime given by U.S. Rev. Stat., sec. 5341 is substantially the same. The proof of homicide, as necessarily involving malice, must show the facts tmder which the killing was effected, and from the whole facts and circumstances surrounding the killing the jury infers malice or its absence. Malice in connection with the crime of killing is but another name for a certain condition of a man's heart or mind, and as no one can look into the heart or mind of another, the only way to decide upon its condition
at the time of a killing is to infer it from the surrounding facts and that inference is one of fact for the jury. The presence or absence of this malice or mental condition marks the boundary which separates the two crimes of murder or manslaughter." (Stevenson v. United States, 162 U.S. 313, 320;	40	L.	Ed.	980,
983)(Cf: Jerry Wallace v. United States, 162 U.S.
466, 40 L. Ed. 1039; John Brown v. United States,
159 U.S. 100, 40 L. Ed. 90).
6.	The function of the Board of Review in examining the record of trial in this case is defined and limited as follows:
"In the exercise of its judicial power of appellate review, the Board of Review treats the findings below as presumptively correct, and examines the record of trial to determine whether they are supported in all essentials by substantial evidence.
To constitute itself a trier of fact on appellate review, and to determine the probative sufficiency of the testimony in a record of trial by the trial court standard of proof beyond-a reasonable doubt would be a plain usurpation of power and frustrative of justice. C.M.192609, Rehearing (1930)."
(Dig. Ops. J.A.G. 1912-40, sec. 407(2), pg. 259). '
"In a case in which the President is neither the reviewing nor the confirming authority, the Board of Review may not legally weigh evidence to determine whether or not certain inferences should have been drawn therefrom. It is sufficient if the inferences drawn by the court could legally have been drawn from the evidence. C.M.161833 (1924)"
(Dig. Ops. J.A.G. 1912-40, sec. 407(2), pg. 259).
>•*
7.	"An unintended homicide, committed by one who at the time is engaged in the commission of some other felony is murder both at common law and under the statutes,****". (29 C.J. sec. 70, pg. 1097; M.C.M,, sec. 148, pg. 163)" "Fornication committed in private and not openly is not an offense, except where it is punishable as such by statute".
(26 C.J., sec.3, pg.987)• Fornication, under the United States Criminal Code is but a misdemeanor (U.S. Criminal Code, sec.318;	18 U.S.C., 518;
U.S. Criminal Code, sec.335; 35 Stat. 1152;	18	U.S.C. 541). The accused,
and deceased were guilty of fornication, i.e., sexual intercourse between two unmarried persons. (2 Viharton's Criminal Law (12th Ed.) sect2104., pg.2413). It therefore follows that the killing of deceased by accused as an incident to the commission of the offence of fornication (a misdemeanor) does not for that reason become murder.
Undoubtedly the Court in finding accused guilty of murder was greatly influenced by the fact that accused strangled deceased while they were engaged in sexual intercourse. However, as has been demonstrated such fact can have no legal force in determining whether the homicide was murder. The fact that they were engaged in such act when the homicide occurred is, however, relevant and material evidence.
8.	In order to sustain the finding of murder it is necessary that the evidence disclose, beyond a reasonable doubt, that accused acted with malice aforethought when he strangled deceased to death. Evidence must be discovered that accused's state of mind preceding or at the time of the killing was such as to show an intention to kill deceased or inflict grievous bodily harm upon her, or that he was conscious of the fact that his acts would cause deceased's death or inflict grievous bodily harm upon her.
There is no evidence that accused and deceased had ever met previously. They may have been strangers or possibly casual acquaintances. However, it may fairly be assumed that deceased's reputation as a prostitute was known to accused; otherwise he hardly would have approached her, in the manner shown by the evidence, and bargained for her favors in exchange for two silver coins and a promise to pay the balance of the consideration in the future. They then retired to the bed room where deceased arranged her clothes in a manner convenient to the occasion, and the couple disposed themselves upon the bed and engaged in embraces. There is not a scintilla of evidence, that accused at this time harbored any design on the life of deceased. The lustful conduct of accused is not a correlative of malice aforethought - a necessary element of the crime of murder.
The evidence establishes beyond dispute that accused was highly intoxicated when he went to deceased's house. While it is true that voluntary intoxication is no defense, the fact that accused was in such condition-has a direct bearing and relevancy in determining his intention and purpose.
(79)
CONFIG' ''f~
"Evidence of intoxication of defendant is held admissible either as tending to cast some light on the circumstances of the crimej or on the issue of deliberation and premeditation, even though defendant voluntarily became drunk for the purpose of nerving himself to commit the homicide; or on the issue of malice, or intent;
-	or to .lower the grade of the crime. Thus, such
evidence is admissible to lessen the offense to murder in the second degree, or to manslaughter in some of its grades." (30 C.J., sec.4-54-, pg.223).
"It is a general rule of law that voluntary drunkenness, whether caused by liquors or drugs, is not an excuse for crime committed while in that condition; but it may be considered as affecting mental capacity' to entertain a specific intent, where such intent is a necessary element . of, the offence." (M.C.M., sec.126, pg.135)
(Cf. 1 Yrtiarton's Criminal Law, sec.4-07, pg.599K
The accused, in a highly intoxicated condition, and deceased engaged in sexual intercourse. They	were prone upon a	bed.	An	iron support
attached to a leg at the foot of the	bed, broke. One corner	of	the mattress
fell to floor, and'the bed covering slid diagonally in the direction of the floor (Ex.B). In the surprise and shock concomitant with .the breaking of the support, the deceased commenced to struggle, and being deaf and dumb, uttered weird and unintelligible sounds. The immediate reaction of accused was to attempt to silence deceased.	Using both of his	hands	he	grasped her
by the tnroat. A further struggle between accused and	deceased	ensued. The
disturbed condition of the bed clothes is indicative of this fact. The deceased received abrasions and bruises, and probably at this time there was inflicted upon her the principal head injury - a deep linear laceration on the left side of her head, about one inch inside of the hair margin. It did not penetrate through to the cricnium and was in fact due to the severity of the bruising at this particular area. (Ex. 6). "By itself it would not be likely to have directly caused death, but judging from the amount of contusion present, etc,, etc., there is no doubt that it would have stunning effect and by this effect could quite easily have had a distinct indirect effect in causing death, as for instance in bringing about a cessation of struggling, etc." (Ex. 6). Accused held her until she ceased to breathe.
There is no evidence of malice on the part of accused in this situation. Rather the conclusion appears to be irrefutable that accused was seized with surprise and fright and lost all powers of deliberation and reason. His judgment was unseated. He acted under the impulse of passion accentuated by his intoxication. Provocation existed, not in its usual formal design of an opponent threatening bodily harm to an accused but in a set of circumstances which operated as powerfully and directly upon deceased's mental processes as would have occurred had deceased seized a revolver and pressed it to accused's head.
82
(80)
"Tihile the word 'passion* usually refers to a state of the mind brought about by anger, it properly speaking expresses that condition of the mind when it has lost its self-control and becomes the passive instrument of the actuating cause or feeling", (Hocker v. Commonwealth,
33 Ky, Law 944; 111 S.W. 676, 681).
The reason the grade of homicide is reduced from murder to manslaughter is:
"Not because the law supposes that this passion made him unconscious of what he was about to do, and stripped the act of killing of an intent to commit it - but because it presumes that passion disturbed the sway of reason, and made him regardless of her admonitions. It does not look upon him as temporarily deprived of intellect, and therefore not an accountable agent; but as one in whom the exercise of judgment is impeded by the violence of excitement, and accountable therefore as an infirm human being.w(State v.
Hill, 20 N.C, 629, quoted in State v. Baldwin,
152 N.C., 822 , 829; * 68 S.E. 14.8).
»
"It will not do to hold that reason should be entirely dethroned, or overpowered by passion, so as to destroy intelligent volition. Such a degree of mental disturbance would be equivalent to utter insanity, and, if the result of adequate provocation, would render the perpetrator morally innocent****.
The principle involved in the question, and which we think clearly deducible from the majority of well-considered cases, would seem to suggest, as the true general rule, that reason should, at the time of the act, be disturbed or obscured by passion to an extent which might render ordinary men, of fair average disposition, liable to act rashly or without due deliberation or reflection, and from passion, rather than judgment." (Peo.- v. Poole, 159 Mich. 350, 354, 123 NVV 1093, 134 ArnSR 722).
"If a woman kills her newly born child, pursuant to a design formed with a sedate and deliberate mind, whether the design was formed before or after its birth, the crime is murder in the first degree.
But if the design to take its life was formed and executed when her mind, by reason of physical or mental anguish, was incapable of cool reflection,
82
(81)
"and she was not sufficiently self-possessed to consider and contemplate the consequences, but yielded to sudden, rash impulse, it is murder in the second degree." Wallace v State, 7 Tex.A.570 (29 C.J., sec.100, pg.1116).
There are certain physiological and psychological factors entering into the situation which cannot be ignored in considering the question as to whether accused acted with "malice aforethought" in strangling deceased.
At the moment the bed broke, accused was immoderately sexually excited. The deaf and dumb woman partner, acting under the shock and surprise resultant upon the breaking of the bed support uttered inarticulate, meaningless sounds and struggled to free herself from accused's orgiastic embrace.
The reaction upon accused's power of reasoning and judgment was in all probabilities'as powerful and drastic as any threat of immediate physical violence. There existed definite, and real provocation, which in its repercussion upon accused*3 mental processes produced temporary paralysis of their normal functioning. The death of the deceased "must have been the unpremeditated result of the passion suddenly aroused to an uncontrollable degree." (l Wharton's Criminal Law, sec.426, pg.656).
9.	If there is a reasonable doubt as to the guilt of an accused of a higher or lesser crime the Court should convict him of the lesser.
(30 C.J., sec.558, pg.312;	23 C.J.S., sec.925, pg.206). If the evidence
is as consistent with the guilt of a lesser crime as it is with the guilt of a higher, the conviction should be of the lesser. (Eagan vs. State,
128 Pac. (2nd) (Wyo.) 215, 225). Where, as in this case, malice must be inferred (if it exists at all) from all the circumstances of the homicide,
,the admission of the homicide by the accused must be considered in connection with any mitigating or exculpatory statements made by him in connection therewith. (Wall vs. State, 5 Ga. App. 305, 63 S.E. 27, 28; Owens vs.
State, 12': Ga. 296, 297, 48 S.E. 21, 23; Frazier v. Com. 114 S.W. (Ky.)
268; Eagan vs. State, supra).
It is the opinion of the Board of Review that in this case the proof not only fails to establish one of the important elements of murder to-wit "malice aforethought", but conversely does affirmatively show that accused acted under such passion and emotion aroused by adequate provocation when he strangled deceased, as to dethrone his power of reason for tlie time being and prevent thought and reflection and the formation of a deliberate purpose. Under such state of the record accused was guilty of voluntary manslaughter and not murder. The maximum sentence for manslaughter is dishonorable discharge from the. service, total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. (M.C.M., sec.104, pg.99).
„ 10. For the reasons stated the Board of Review holds that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of the Specification and of the Charge an ^nvolves a finding of guilty of voluntary manslaughter In violation of Article of War 93, at the time and place and of the person alleged; and legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for 10 years.	The	court	was
>c*
■..-.1 re i r
o o a on o-,,
i.»1
legally constituted. No errors injuriously effecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial.
11. The accused is thirty-five (35) years of age. Pursuant t© paragraph 5 (d), General Order 37, ET0U3A, 9 September 1942, the execution of the sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when the accused is sentenced to confinement for three (3) years of more for an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable*
Hanslaughter, when committed under the conditions in this case is such an offense. A general prisoner may be returned to the United States for service of sentence of three (3) years or more. The Secretary of War, by instruction dated 26 February 1941 (AG 253 (2-6-41), directed that prisoners in such cases under thirty-one (31) years of age and sentenced to not more than ten (10) years, will be confined in the Federal Correctional Institution or Reformatory, which is nearest the port of debarkation in the United States. Conversely, a prisoner over thirty-one (31) years of age is subject to confinement in the United States Penitentiary. The Federal Penitenitary at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, is therefore the proper place of confinement of this prisoner.
(83)
In the Office of The Judge Advocate General for the
European Theater of Operations APO 871
Board of Review.
ETO 82. -
UNITED STATES v.
Tech. Fifth Grade LAWRENCE H. KcKENZIE (39389670), Company "G", 1st Armored Division.
1ST ARMORED DIVISION
TRL1L by G. C. I’.I, convened at ' Castlewellan, County Down, Northern Ireland, 20 October 1942. Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances and confinement at hard labor for life. Penitentiary.
CONCURRING OPINION by VAN BENSCHOTEN, Judge Advocate.
1.	Accused has been convicted of the murder of one, Mary Jane Martin, in violation of the 92nd Article of ’Jar. The court imposed the sentence of dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and confinement at hard labor for life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but the Board of Review holds the record legally sufficient to support only so much of.the finding of guilty of the Specification as involves a finding of guilty of voluntary manslaughter under the 93rd Article of V/ar and legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. I agree with the results and conclusions arrived at by my colleagues but not with their reasons therefor.
2,	The statement of facts set out in the opinion of the Board of Review is very sufficient and the legal citations leave little that can be added. However, I find it unnecessary to speculate upon the surprise, shock or reactions of the parties because of the breaking of the bed post. These may have as many variations as there are existing people.
3.	The evidence herein establishes beyond dispute that accused was nighly intoxicated when he went to the home pf deceased. YiThile it is true that voluntary intoxication is no defense, the fact that accused was in such condition has a direct bearing and relevancy in determining his intention and purpose.
"Evidence of intoxication of defendant is held admissible either as tending to cast some light on the circumstances of the*crimej or on the issue of deliberation and premeditation, even though the defendant voluntarily became drunk for the purpose
82
"of nerving himself to commit the homicide; or on the issue of malice, or intent: or to lower the grade of the crime. Thus, such evidence is .admissible to lessen the offense to murder in the second degree, or to manslaughter in some of its grades." (30 C.J., sec.454-, pg.22377 (Underscoring supplied).
"It is a general rule of law that voluntary drunkenness, whether caused by liquors or drugs, is not an excuse for crime committed while in that condition; but it may be considered as affecting mental capacity to entertain a specific intent, where such intent is a necessary element of the offense." (M.C.M., sec.126, pg.135) (Cf. 1 Vfharton's Criminal Law, sec.4.07, pg.60l).
"The common law, though it does not indict for mere drunkenness, views it as a wrongful act. As, observes Bishop, "the law deems it wrong for a man to cloud his mind, or excite it to evil action, by the use of intoxicating drinks." Crime therefore, when committed by an individual who has previously placed himself under the influence of an intoxicant, is committed by one who is in the wrong ab initio; hence the established general principle of law that voluntary drunkenness furnishes per se no excuse or palliation for criminal acts committed during its continuance, and no immunity from the penal consequences of such acts. But the question whether or not the accused was drunk at the time of the commission of the criminal act may bq material as going to indicate what species or quality of offence was actually committed. Thus there are crimes, or instances of crimes, which can be consummated only where a peculiar and distinctive intent, or a conscious deliberation or premeditation, has concurred with the act, which could not well be possessed or entertained by an intoxicated person. In such cases evidence of the drunken condition of the party at the' time of his commission of the alleged crime is held admissible, not to excuse or extenuate the act as such, but to aid in determining whether, in view of the state of his mind, such act amounted to the specific crime charged, or which of two or more crimes, similar but distinguished in degree, it really was in law. So. upon jew an indictment for murder, testimony as to the inebriation of the accused at the time of the killing may ordinarily properly be admitted as indicating a mental excitement. confusion, or unconsciousness.
(85)
"incompatible tinder the circumstances of the case with premeditation or a deliberate intent to take life. and as reducing the crime to the grade of manslaughter, or—where such an offence is created by the .State statute—of murder in the second (or other) degree." (Underscoring supplied). (Winthrop’s Military Law and Precedents (2nd Ed.) pg.292-3).
4.	No motive, reason or purpose for the act of accused is disclosed by the record, directly or by inference, but it does affirmatively indicate the accused to have been intoxicated to such a degree as to render him incapable, under the circumstances, of premeditation or of a deliberate intent to take life. Under such state of the record accused was guilty of voluntary manslaughter and not murder. The maximum sentence for manslaughter is dishonorable discharge from the service, total forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for 10 years (lu.C.M., sec. 104, pg. 97).
UUi'.i- iUL" »|r,;-
2 - DEC 1942
1st Ind.
WAR DEPARTMENT, Office of The Judge Advocate General, European Theater of Operations, APO 871, U. S. Array.
TO:	Commanding	General,	1st	Armored Division, APO 2£l, U.S. Array.
1. In the case of Tech. Fifth Grade LAWRENCE H. McKENZIE (39389670) Co. G. 1st Armored Regiment, I concur in the foregoing holding of the Board of Review for the reasons stated in both the majority and concurring Opinions.
I see no need to rely solely on the alcoholic intoxication. There was much more in this case, a most unusual combination of disturbing circumstances, which combined provided adequate provocation to produce an emotional upset so violent as, for the time being, sufficiently to dethrone the reason of accused to prevent thought and reflection on the formation of a deliberate purpose. In such a case it is the theory of the law that malice and passion or emotion of such degree cannot coexist in the mind at the same time, hence the homicide is not murder but voluntary manslaughter.
I accordingly recommend that only so much of the findings of guilty of the specification and the charge be approved as involves a finding of guilty of voluntary manslaughter in violation of Article of War 93, at the time and place and of the person alleged, and that only so much of the sentence be approved as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for ten (10) years. Thereupon, you will have authority to order the execution of the sentence as modified.
2. When copies of the published order in this case are forwarded to this office, together with the record of trial which is herewith returned, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number cf the record of this case in this office is ETO 82. For convenience of reference, please place that nunber in^brackets at the end of the published order as follows:	(ETO	82).
L. H. HEDRICK, Brigadier General,
Judge Advocate General, Europen. Theater of Operations.
23499&
• v‘ .}
!
#(87)
