#(287)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the
European Theater of Operations APO 871.
Board of Review.
ETO 763.	1	0	SEP	1943
UNITED STATES	)
)
T’	1
Second Lieutenant GEORGE A. MQRIfU	)
(0-494653)f Infantry, Headquarters	)
Company, Headquarters Command,	)
Services of Supply, European Theater	)
of Operations, APO 871.	)
SERVICES OF SOPPLT, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS,
APO 871.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Cheltenham, England, 14 August 1943. Sentence: To be dismissed the service.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.
1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:
CHARGE:	Violation-	of	the 96th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that	Second Lieutenant George
A. Morley, Infantry, Headquarters Company,
Headquarters Command, Services of Supply,
EIOUSA, did, at Race Course Camp, Cheltenham,
Gloucestershire, England, on or about 31 July 1943# wrongfully strike Private William E.
Horton, Headquarters Company, Headquarters Command, Services of Supply, ETOUSA, in the face with his hand and kick him in the body with his foot.
He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority. Commanding General, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations,
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(288)
CONFIDENTIAL
approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial‘for action under Article of War A8. The confirming authority, Commanding General,
European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and pursuant to Article of War 50%, withheld the order directing the execution thereof.
3.	Except in some minor details the uncontradicted evidence herein shows that Private William E. Horton, Headquarters Company, Headquarters Command, Services of Supply, after spending the evening in the "pubs" of Cheltenham, became intoxicated and was brought by another soldier, in a taxicab, back to their quarters at the Race Track Camp. On getting out of the taxicab at the camp, Horton was tumble to walk and two soldiers arriving at the same time at the camp by bus also canle to his assistance and they started to carry Horton to his barracks to put him to bed. Going along the drive in camp they met accused who was without necktie, cap or blouse, his shirt collar was unbuttoned and open, his sleeves were rolled up (R15,17) and he was accompanied by a female companion. It was fairly dark (R13). Neither Horton nor any of his party were noisy or disorderly (R15). They were ordered by accused to "drop that man" and did so.
Accused then ordered Horton to stand up and on his inability to do, picked him up, then struck him either once or twice, knocked him down and while he was on the ground kicked him in the side (R8,10,12,13,15-17,19-23,25-27). Accused then dragged Horton to the guardhouse where he kept him some 10 or 15 minutes (R12,26), when he permitted Horton’s soldier companions to take him out and carry him to his barracks and put him to bed (R26). Accused's companion who was with him from 8:15 in the evening (R18) until after 11:00 did not see him drink all evening (R19).
Accused remained silent and offered but one witness Captain Harold A. Sprinkle, C.E., a character witness, who testified that he came overseas with accused in May 19A3, and that accused’s conduct was quite satisfactory (R28-29).
A.	"Cases	will	indeed	sometimes	aribe in the
military service when a superior is cklled upon to employ toward an inferior a dfegTeb or quality of force not in general permissible. As where he is required to defend himself against an assailant, to suppress a mutiny, to quell a dangerous offender or quiet a turbulent one, *#** in such instances the superior may resort to the necessary personal force, use of arms, imprisonment **■**. This, however, is repression and restraint, not punishment; no greater force or more severe restriction is therefore to be employed than may be reasonable and need-full under the circumstances; and where the commander is provided with the usual or with
- 2 -
rlDEtlTlAL
CONFIDENTS
(289)
adequate facilities for apprehending and confining an offender with a view to trial, he is not, even in time of war, to inflict personal chastisement upon him or subject him to any arbitrary punitory treatment, much less, by the use of arms, to put' him in danger of his life. In violating these rules the superior subjects himself to charges and trial by court-martial *•****." (Winthrop’s Military Law & Precedents, 1920 Reprint, p.446).
"An officer has no right to punish, by assault, any offense or dereliction of duty on the part of an enlisted man. Such action constitutes an offense against military law, and charges may be preferred against the officer under either AW 95 or AW 96. 250.4, Sept.3, 1918." (1912-1940 Dig.Ops.JAG., par.453(3), p.3U? 1918 Ops.JAG., pp.724-725}.
Without provocation, accused assaulted a helplessly drunken soldier, knocking him down and kicking him as he lay on the ground. The soldier was committing no disturbance or offense other than being drunk. His friends were in the act of taking him to his quarters to put him to bed. Accused was not in uniform, making it difficult in the darkness to recognize him as an officer, though all his orders were obeyed except the order to Horton to stand at attention with which order Horton was physically unable to comply. Accused does not explain or.attempt to justify his actions. No apparent reason for his actions presents itself. Possibly he thought to make an impression on his companion. There are however, no extenuating circumstances in connection with the reprehensible conduct .of the accused, unless perhaps, his youth and inexperience. In his request for clemency attached to the file, accused says "*** I was under the influence of liquor to such an extent that I honestly did not know what I was doing." No where in the record however, is there any indication that accused was intoxicated. Accused’s conduct certainly constitutes "disorders and neglects to the prejudice of good order and military discipline" under the 96th Article of War.
1942.
5. Accused is 20 years of age and entered upon active duty 30 September
6.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence herein. The sentence is legal. The court was legally constituted and no errors injuriously affecting the substantia^ lights of the accused were committed at the trial.
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
- 3
- CSfjFIDENTIAL.
Judge Advocate
(290)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG,, with ETOUSA. 1 0 SEP 1943	TO:	Commanding
General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Second Lieutenant GEORGE A. EQRLEX (0-494653)» Infantry, Headquarters Company, Headquarters Command, Services of Supply, ETOUSA, APO 871, attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5&k> you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.
2.	Hiss Marion Davies, aged 17 years, who described her occupation as.that of a waitress at the Queens Hotel, Cheltenham, was a witness at the trial. She testified that while in the officers' mess at The Racecourse neither she nor the accused had anything to drink and that she did not see accused drink at any time during the evening. Among the accompanying papers is a signed statement made to a Cheltenham police officer on 2 August 1943 by Miss Davies. She says shq left the Queens Hotel about 8:15 P.M. on Saturday night, 31 July 1943 with accused to go to The Racecourse where he was stationed to have a drink. She further said ”he was under the influence of drink and when we arrived there I went with him to the officers' mess where we talked and read books. There was no drink there. ***. Lieutenant Morley was a bit 'tight' himself, and in a bad temper.” The record of trial is entirely silent as to whether accused was intoxicated at the time of his assault on Private Horton. While such evidence would not excuse accused's conduct it would serve to explain it. As the record stands accused's assault and battery upon Horton appears to have been wholly without cause
or reason and leaves the implication that he was attempting to display his prowess and authority before Miss Davies.
3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement.
The file number of the record in this office is ETO 763. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 763).
prigadier General, United States Array, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 18, ETO, 15 Sep 1943)
#(291)
