#(371)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 823
1 4 OCT 1943
UNITED STATES )
)
v.
Private CHARLES B. PCTEET (6996601), Service Battery, 2nd Battalion, 36th Field Artillery.
)
)
WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER QF OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at Chester, England, 1 September 194-3 • Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for life. United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD CF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications*
CHARGE* Violation of the 58th Article of Wax.
Specification:	In	that Private Charles B. Poteet,
Service Battery, Second Battalion, 36th Field Artillery, did, at Perham Downs, Hants, England, on or about 3 December 1942, desert the service of the United States, and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Wrexham,
Denbighshire, Wales, on or about 5 May 194-3.
ADDITIONAL CHARGE I* Violation of the 58th Article of War..
Specification* In that Private Charles B, Poteet,
Service Battery, Second Battalion, 36th Field Artillery, did, at Whittington Barracks, Staffordshire, England, on or about 7 June 194-3, desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at London, England, on or about 27 July 1943*
- 1 -
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
ADDITIONAL CHARGE lit Violation of the 69th Article of War.
Specification:	In	that Private Charles B. Poteet,
Service Battery, Second Battalion, 36th Field Artillery, having been duly placed in confinement in the guardhouse at Whittington Barracks, Staffordshire, England,, on or about 6 June 194-3, did escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority*
He pleaded guilty to the specifications of the Charge (.original) and of Additional Charge I except the words "desert" and "in desertion" substituting therefor* respectively the words "absent himself from" and "without proper leave", to the excepted words not guilty, to the substituted words guilty, not guilty to the Charge (original) and to Additional Charge I but guilty of violations of Article of War 61, and guilty to Additional Charge II and to the Specification thereunder. He was found guilty of all charges and specifications. Evidence of one previous conviction, by special court-martial for absence without leave for a period of about 53 days was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for the term of his natural life. The reviewing authority approved the sentence "and ordered (it) executed", designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement and pursuant to Article of War 50^r withheld the order directing execution of the sentence.
3.	By his pleas of guilty accused admitted his unauthorized absences and escape from confinement as alleged. With reference to the Charge (original) and Specification (desertion in violation of Article of War 58) the evidence for the prosecution shows that on 5 lay 194-3, as the result of receiving certain information, Police Constable Robert W. Wooff of Wrexham (’Wales) went to a house in .Wrexham where he found accused in bed.
The constable informed him that he was a police officer and had reason to believe that accused was a deserter from the United States Army (R6).
Accused said that his name was Young and upon request produced an identity card bearing the name of Harold "Young and an address in Cheltenham (England), together with a ration book which was also in the name of Harold Young (R7). When told by the constable that he was not satisfied, accused said that about the beginning of December 1942 he deserted the 36th Field Artillery, United States Army, stationed at Tidworth (R7-8). He was then placed under arrest. Accused put on civilian clothes and made no effort to dress in a uniform which he had in a suitcase (R8,10). He Also had in his possession an army "greatcoat"", some army clothing bearing the name "Thomas J. Carlson" and an American identification card No. 0.485100 which did not contain a photograph. Accused said that he had purchased the civilian clothing with coupons obtained from a young woman with whom he was living (R8). The girl, whose name was Nellie Young told Constable Wooff in accused^ presence that she was his wife. She later denied it (R9).
Accused was then taken to the Wrexham police station and detained for the
2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
(373)
confidential
military authorities (R8-9).
Tfith reference to Additional Charge I and Specification (desertion in violation of Article of ’.Tar 58) the evidence for the prosecution shows that Sergeant John R. Kozak, Investigating Division, Provost T.Iarshal General's Department, APO-887, who had been looking for accused, saw him in the Soho district of London on 27 July 1943. Kozak asked accused'for his name, rank, serial number, identification card-and tags, and paybook.
Accused saidjthat he was .Sergeant "Billy Taylor", that he had lost his identification tags and that his'pay book and identification card had been stolen. lie was placed under arrest (Rll). He then told Kozak that he was Private Charles B. Poteet of the 36th Field Artillery unit, and that he had deserted his organization at Perhan Downs, England on or about December 3,
1942 (R12,19). After being warned as to his rights, he further stated that he had gone to Eastleigh, remained there about two weeks and then went to Cheltenham where he lived with a Hiss Nellie Young in her home as husband and wife. Kiss Young's mother lived with them. He was furnished with civilian clothing which he wore most of the time (R12). On 29 July 19A3 after again being warned of his rights, accused repeated to Kozak the foregoing statement made on 27 July and further said that he had remained in Cheltenham for about four months. Miss Young's mother had joined the "ATS" and had failed to report for duty. Because of this fact and also because he was becoming too well known around the neighborhood, the three moved to v.'rexham, North ’Tales, where the two women secured work. Accused lived with them until about. 5 May 19.43 when he was taken into custody, detained for a short time in the guardhouse at Lichfield and later sent to the hospital there because of a throat infection. He escaped from the hospital with another soldier, borrowed money and went to London where he lived on the earnings of prostitutes and by cohabiting with male sexual perverts (R13-15). The statement of 29 July was taken down in writing by Kozak, ana was read, signed and sworn to by accused who also signed a warning as to his rights which was contained in the document (R19-20). The statement was not introduced in evidence. On cross-examination, Kozak denied that accused load asked for a drink of water but stated that he had refused his request for a cigarette (R20-21).
Introduced in evidence were certain articles of civilian clothing worn by accused when apprehended in London (Rl'/'-18j Pros.Exs. C,D,E). Also admitted in evidence were two articles found in accused's possession when arrested. They were a pair of identification tags reading "El.m er TT. Mullen, 19128604 T.43 A", "Cecilia S. Mullen, 727 Keversenk St. Reading, P.A" and the capital letter "C", together with a soldier's individual pay record bearing the name of Private Floyd James Davis, serial No. 37496323, and the name and address of the soldier*s-wife, Edna Marie Davis, 236 S. Prospect, Eedalia, Missouri (Rl6-17,19j Pros.Exs. A,B)
4.	Accused, upon being advised of his rights elected to make an unsworn statement (R21-22). On 2 December 1942 he drew 73 pounds, won 42 pounds more playing cards, and went to Eastleigh with three friends where they drank "pretty heavily". The civilian police picked up two of his friends
- 3 **
uONFIDENTIAL
COWnnEHTIAL
(374.)
and accused with his remaining companion attempted without success to return to camp, They "kept hanging around and having a few more drinks and still going down to the police station trying to get our two friends out". Accused was finally locked up and detained until 2 o'clock the following day. As his pass had expired at 11:00 p,m. the previous evening he knew "what would happen" on his return to camp and decided to remain another day or two. He drank for about two weeks, went to Cheltenham to stay with his brother for about three weeks and then returned to his station to find that his unit had departed. He remained two days with another company and after futile efforts to find his organization,he returned to Cheltenham intending to surrender. There he became acquainted with JALss Kellie Young and began to stay at her home when her father was away. As miss Young's mother had joined the "ATS" tut did not want to leave for duty because of her two small children, she suggested that the three go to Wrexham, North bales, where the two women could get employment, and asked accused to accompany them. I-rs. Young secured clothing coupons and furnished him with civilian clothing'in order that he might have his dirty uniform cleaned. Accused sent his uniform to the cleaners in Wales and it was returned the day before he was apprehended. The two women worked and obtained enough money to pay the rest. Two weeks after their arrival	in Wrexham a "C.I.D" nan came to the house and asked
accused, who was in	bed,	if	he was Lr. Young. When he replied that he	was,
the man told accused he was Private.Charles B. Poteet and a deserter from the United States Army. Accused admitted this and upon request surrendered a certain identity card which the man knew he had in his possession. When informed that he had to go to the police station, accused started to put on his uniform but was	told	to	wear his civilian clothes. When asked for	the
ration book he said	that	he	did not have it which was true because kiss	Young
gave it to him later when he left the house. The ration book was taken from him at the police station (H23-2A).
He was taken to Lichfield and subsequently went to a hospital where he received a letter from LLLss Young saying that her baby would be born in December. He escaped from the hospital in order to obtain some money to help her "when the baby was bom". He Trent to London and remained there for about a month and a half until he was apprehended (on 27 July 19A3) by Kozak who took him to the police station. There, Kozak took away a glass of water which had been given accused, told him that he could keep him there until he was "almost grey-headed" and that.he could not have anything to eat until he "started talking and telling/the truth". He questioned accused who "told everything I knew", Kozak left, saying he would return in a day or two for a statement. On 29 July he again saw Kozak who told him that a man whom he had arrested the day before had done something he did not like, and that he had taken him down to the latrine where he "beat hell out of him with his stick". Kozak then informed accused that anything he said could be used for or against him, whereupon accused told him "the whole story" (R2A-26).
5.	It was alleged that accused was confined in the guardhouse at Whittington Barracks, Staffordshire, England and that he escaped from said confinement on or about 6 June 19A3 (Additional Charge II and Specification), However, from the evidence it appears that after first being confined in the
- A "
r 'inENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(375)
guardhouse he was sent to a hospital from which he subsequently escaped (R14,24). An examination of the papers accompanying the record of trial discloses that accused escaped from Detention V/ard Wo. 8 of the 33rd Station Hospital, but that the hospital was in fact situated at Whittington Barracks. Lichfield, Staffordshire, England. Accused pleaded guilty to the offense alleged, did not claim to have been misled by the variance and entered no objection. The irregularity did not injuriously affect his substantial rights.
6.	Sergeant Kozak testified as to the details of accused's statement made before him on 29 July after he had warned accused as to his rights.
Kozak reduced the statement to writing and it was then read, signed and acknowledged by accused. The written statement itself was not introduced in evidence and the defense offered no objection to Kozak's testimony as to the details of the statement on the ground that the document itself constituted the best evidence. Under such circumstances the objection to the irregularity concerned may be regarded as waived (CM ETO 739* Maxwell).
7.	The middle initial of accused's name is set forth in the charge sheets as "B", whereas the initial contained in the action of the reviewing authority is "R". However, accused is properly identified in the action by his serial number and organization. The action is not in the usual form prescribed by par.10, appendix 10, LEM., 1928, p.275 in that the reviewing authority approved the sentence, ordered it executed and then withheld the order directing the execution of the sentence pursuant to Article of V.'ar 50g-. Although under the circumstances of the present case the sentence should not have been "ordered executed" until the provisions of Article of War 50g- had been fully complied with, it is apparent that these words were inserted through error as the reviewing authority directed that the order directing the execution of the sentence be withheld pursuant to the provisions of that Article. Accordingly, the Board of Review has treated the record
of trial as though such words were not included in the action.
8.	By the provisions of paragraph 1 of attached Special Order No, 186, Headquarters, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, 21 August 1943 Lieutenant-Colonel Thomas B. Bagley J.A.G.D., was detailed as law member vice Lieutenant Colonel Leonard E. Webster G.S.C., for the trial of the present case only. It was directed that the case be tried with the law member present.
The law member was present but his designation as such was not set forth in the record of trial (R2).
9.	The review of the assistant staff judge advocate, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA refers to several objections by the defense to the admission of certain evidence and to other irregularities contained in the record of trial. Further comment thereon is unnecessary.
10.	In view of accused's plea of guilty of absence without leave with reference to the offense of desertion alleged in the Charge'(original) and Specification thereunder, the only question presented for consideration is whether the evidence was legally sufficient to establish the requisite
- 5 -
‘"ONHOENTIAL
(376)
CONFIDENTIAL
intent to desert. His prolonged absence of about five months was terminated by apprehension. Although he was for several months in the immediate vicinity of military installations he did not surrender to military authorities, He existed on the earnings of two women, lived with one of them as husband and wife and wore civilian clothing. One of his reasons for moving from Cheltenham to Wrexham was the fact thathe was becoming too well known in the neighborhood. When apprehended he admitted his identity only after first giving a false name and displaying an identity card and a ration book issued in the name of a civilian. The court was fully warranted in finding that accused vrent absent without leave with the intent not to return.
In view of accused's plea of guilty of absence without leave, the same question arises in connection with the offense of desertion alleged in Additional Charge I and its Specification. Accused escaped from confinement and was apprehended about 50 days later at a considerable distance from his home station. Although the ostensible purpose of his absence was to obtain money to defray the expenses attending the birth of Miss Young's baby he existed in London upon the earnings of prostitutes and by associating with male sexual perverts. He wore certain items of civilian clothing and although again in the immediate vicinity of military installations he made no effort to surrender. He once more gave a false name when apprehended and was in the possession of identification tags and a soldier's pay record issued to other military personnel. Intent to desert was clearly established by the evidence (CM ETO 740, Lane: CM ETO 800, Ungard).
11.	The charge sheets show that accused is 21 years of age and enlisted 7 November 1939, his enlistment being governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941* He had no prior service.
12.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.
13.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ET0U5A, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4- December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion in time of war (Article of T7ar 42; par.5^, sec.II, AR 600-375, 17 May 1943; par.90, 3,'OM., 1928; :V,ar Department letter AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941)). The designation of the correct.
’ — 6 —
CONFIDENTIAL
i States Penitentiary, Leydsburg, Pennsylvania is
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate udge Advocate
CONFIDENTIAL
(377)
1st Ind.
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA,
Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515*
1 4 OCT 1943
TO: Commanding
1.	In the case of Private CHARLES B. POTHET (6996601), Service Battery, 2nd Battalion, 36th Field Artillery attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50§- you now have authority to order execution of the sentence,
2,	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 823, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 823)•
Brigadier General, United States,Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(379)
