#(175)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations ,
APO 871
EQARD CF REVIEW ETO 1284
UNITED S T.A T E S )
v.	)
Private ARTHUR A. DAVIS	)
(34069350), Private WILLIAM H.	)
PINDER (33199301), T/5 MILTON	}
7.	TRAVERS (33062188), Private	)
JOHN W. MIUER (33171061),	)
Private RUFUS (NMI) SCOTT ✓	)
(33062138J, Private PLUMER W/	)
HUDSHITH (38338787), all of	)
LrasjS.(Avq), J^th .q.M.Tjft.	j
Ba.Avn.(Sp) 1511th Q.M.Trk.	)
Reg.Avn.(Sp). and Private	)
OZARK (NMl) CAMERON (34062165),	)
1944th Q.M. Trk.Co.Avn.. 1512th	)
SU.M	(SBj.	)
-6 APR 1944
VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 473 on 9-U December 1943* NOT GUILTY: John W. Miller. SENTENCES:	Dishonorable	discharge,
total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor, Davis three years, Plnder.one year, Travers two years, Scott four years, Hudspeth three years, Cameron two years. Eastern Bbanch,'United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York.
HOMING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RUER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	The accused were jointly tried upoh the following charges and specifications:
CHARGE I: Violation of the 89th Article of War.
Specification:	In that Pvt. Arthur A. Davis, Pvt.
William H. Pinder, T/5 Milton F. Travers, Pvt*
John W. Miller, Pvt. Rufus Scott and Pvt.
Planer W. Hudspeth, all of the 1929th QM Trk.
Co. (Avn), 1511th QM Trk. Reg. Avn (Sp), and Pvt. Ozark Cameron, 1944th QM Trk. Co. (Avn),
1511th QM Trk. Regt. Avn (Sp), being in garrison at AAF Station 473> VIII Air Force Service Command., did, in conjunction with
(176)
certain other soldiers whose names are unknown, at.Three Tuns Public House, Hotwell Road, Bristol,.Gloucestershire, England, and in the immediate vicinity thereof, on or about 6 November, 1943, commit.a riot and depredation in . that they did wrongfully, unlawfully and riotously, and in a violent and tumultuous maimer, assemble to disturb the peace of the said town of Bristol, and having so assembled, did unlawfully riot, -and commit a depredation upon the premises of the said Three Tuns Public House by throwing and breaking glasses, beer mugs, bottles and damaging other privately owned property on the premises of the said Three Tims Public House*
CHARGE lit. Violation of the 93rd Article of War* Specification:	In	that *************,
acting jointly and in pursuance of a common intent did, in conjunction with certain other soldiers whose names are unknown, at Three Tuns .t Public House, Hotwell Road, Bristol, Gloucester-t[ shire, England, and in the immediate vicinity ; thereof,.on or about 6 November, 1943, with in-, tent to do them bodily harm, commit an assault . upon 1st Sgt. Harwell E* Cooper and S/Sgt. Christian_S. Holst, both of Hq. Company, 3rd. Battalionj 50?nd Parachute Infantry, Pfc. Clifford Edwards, of Pet* *B* Co. 'B*, 769th M.P. Battalion, T/5 George Cross of the 1965th Q.M.Trk. Co. (Avn),. 1511th QM Trk. Reg. Avn (Sp), Mrs. Ellen Callon, Mrs; Lavinia Morris,
Mrs. Annie Rose Armstrong, all of Bristol, Gloucestershire, England, by menacing and striking the said 1st Sgt, Harwell E. Cooper, S/Sgt. Christian S. Holst, Pfc. Clifford Edwards, T/5 George Cross, Mrs. Ellen Callon, Mrs. .Lavinia Morris, and Mrs. Annie Rose Armstrong on the head and other parts of the body with dangerous things, to witt beer mugs, glasses, bottles and knives*
CHARGE lilt Violation of the 96th Article of War* Specification:	In	that **■**#*#**#***,
acting jointly and in pursuance of a common, intent, did, in conjunction with certain other soldiers whose names are unknown, at the Three Tuns Public House, Hotwell Road, Bristol, Gloucestershire, England, and in the immediate vicinity thereof, on or about 6 November, 1943, wrongfully and unlawfully resist by force and violence, lawful arrest by Pfc. Clifford Edwards,
- 2 -
(177)
of Det. *B«, Co. 'B», 769th M.P. Battalion and T/5 George Cross, of11965th QM Co. Trk.
(Avn), Military Police in the execution of their duty.
Each accused pleaded not guilty to'the-charges and specifications. Accused John W, Miller was acquitted of all charges and specifications. Accused Davis and Scott'were found guilty of all charges and specifications. Accused Travers and Cameron were found not guilty of Charge II and its Specification but guilty of Charges I and III and their respective specifications. Accused Hudspeth was found not guilty of Charge III and its Specification but guilty of Charges I and II and their respective specifications# Accused Pinder was found not guilty of Charges I and II and their respective specifications but guilty of Charge III and its Specification. Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction of accused Cameron by summary court for failure to obey an officer, in violation of AST 96. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced as to accused Davis, Pinder, Travers, Scott and Hudspeth. Each accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor, at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, as follows: Davis, three years; Pinder, one year; Travers, two years; Scott, four years; Hudspeth, three years; Cameron, two years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the Eastern Branch,' United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New Tork as the place of confinement for each accused and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant* to Article of War 50£.
3.	The prosecution's evidence shows that at 5 mlnates of 10 o’clock on the evening of 6 November 19A3, Mrs. Annie Rose Armstrong the proprietress of the Three Tuns Public Hor. Hotwell Road, Bristol, Gloucestershire, England, extinguished the light over the till in the bar' room, indicating according to custom the closing of the bar* Mrs. Jennie Holmes, her daughter, who waa the barmaid, called "time" as a further means of informing the crowd of Saturday night guests - mostly civilians - that no more drinks would be served. Immediately thereafter four colored American soldiers came into the bar. One approached the counter and asked for drinks. The barmaid*announced that she was very sorry, but she could not serve them, as it was "gone time.". To their ensuing inquiry why she had served two white American paratrooper sergeants. -. characterised by the colored soldier as "white bastards" - sitting there at a table with two girls, she replied that they had been served before* she called "time". Thereupon one of the colored soldiers picked up a pint cup and threw it across the bar in the direction of the unsuspecting paratroopers-(R12,5l) who, accompanied by their girls and piloted by the proprietress1 son, fled to the bagatelle room adjoining and in the rear of the bar, but not before one of the colored soldiers had seized a white sergeant by the throat (R36) and had been violently repulsed by an effectively wielded beer mug. Panic-stricken customers endeavoring to leave hurriedly were blocked in their outward passage by the colored soldiers, one of whom went to the door and called in other colored soldiers from the outside. The utmost conTusipn prevailed. All colored soldiers present participated (R5l). Glp.s8es,
(178)
cups, mugs, bottles, a cuspidor and a knife hurtled through the air. Five dozen glasses and a table were smashed. ' The door to the bagatelle room was kicked from its hinges by two of the colored soldiers when they found it had been locked behind the white sergeants and their girls, who managed -to escape by climbing out through a window of the bagatelle room some fifteen or twenty feet above the ground. A number of persons in the bar, including those named in the Specification, Charge II, were struck, cut or bruised in the melee, none very gravely (R7-33,35*39,A2,AA*55>57-67). '•
The disorder lasted for about half an hour. Shortly after it commenced, Ronald P.J. Armstrong, the proprietress' son, escaped to summon military police. Because of the violent opposition of the colored soldiers - "the police were using their truncheons and the soldiers in the bar wefe retaliating",- the American military police and members of the civilian constabulary who Came to their assistance, were unable to evict the crowd until further reinforcements arrived. Once the bar was finally cleared the' disorder continued on the moonlit thoroughfare outside, where the military •police undertook to arrest those colored soldiers whom they believed, to be the leaders of the mob because of their* excited running about from group to group apparently accelerating the agitation. While these were resolutely resisting arrest by such means as struggling,
. scuffling, seizing a club and displaying a knife - all more particularly narrated in the later summary of the evidence applicable to each accused -someone heaved a brick through a window into the bar room of the Three Tuns, shattering the pane. All but one of the accused (Hudspeth) were arrested that night outside the "pub" and transported to military police headquarters (R9-15,18,19,39, AO, 52-5A,68-lA2).
A. The evidence connecting each accused with the offenses may be summarized as follows:
(a)	DAVIS (convicted of all charges) was Identified as present in , the bar room during the disturbance by (l) Mrs. Jennie Holmes, the barmaidj
(2)	Mrs. lavinia Morris, a customer hurt in the melee, who testified he was one of the three soldiers who attacked the white soldier (R26); (3) Ronald
P.J. Armstrong, the proprietress* son; (A) First Sergeant Harold E. Cooper, one of the white paratroopers who escaped through the bagatelle room; and who also identified Davis as one who attacked him (R59); and by (5) Police Sergeant Ernest Beard of the Bristol Constabulary. Ten military policemen recognized Davis outside the "pub" immediately after the rioters had been evicted (R82,107,132,139). There he said he wanted to go back in and "tear* the place up" (R82). He was arrested for inciting the riot (R130). He resisted arrest, Jumped on the back of a military policeman in the ant of arresting another colored soldier who succeeded, as a result of Davis' attack, in making his escape (R10A,128-129). Davis Bhoved and cursed the military policemen who arrested him, planted his feet against the ambulance in an effort to push himSelf free of his captors, and was only subdued through the united efforts of several, who lifted him bodily - still struggling - into the vehicle (R102,110,115,1A0).
i i' ’ii
- A«
(179)
(b)	SCOTT (convicted of all charges) had been in the Three Time "pub" on previous occasions (R19) and he iras identified as one of the four colored soldiers who started the disturbance on the night of 6 November 1943 in the "pub" (RIO,36,41,50,94), and continued it outside (R82,132) where he attempted to cut one of the military police with a knife. It was taken away from him after he had cut one of them on the thumb. He had been evicted from the "pub" and was trying to get in. again when he was seen with the knife which he threatened to use. It was only after a "terrible tussle" that the military police succeeded in putting him in the ambulance and taking"him‘ to police headquarters (R89-90,96,104-106,110-112,115,120-122,133-136,138-140).
.s '
(c)	HUDSPETH (convicted of riot and assault) was identified by
Mrs. Holmes as the "one with a gold tooth", whom she had refused to serve Just before the "skirmish" started because time had been called (R9). She testified that when first refused he sought to induce her to serve him by offering to buy drinks "all round the bar." He offered to pay two pounds for a small residue of whiskey in a bottle behind the bar (R8,ll), and voiced the complaint that she had served the white American soldiers and not them (referring to the paratroopers as "bastards") (Rll). He then started the melee by flinging the first cup (R8) and went over and grabbed one of the white soldiers when the fight started (R12). Mrs, Armstrong testified that she was standing in the doorway to the bar when her daughter refused to serve a colored soldier on the occasion in question. She knew he had'a * gold tooth but could not recognize him among the accused. She could identify none of them. They all looked alike to her (R26-28,33). Mrs, Morris testified that she had been standing near the bar when Mrs. Holmes refused to serve the four colored‘soldiers just after "time wan called" on the night of 6 November. A week later during the investigation she identified Hudspeth as the spokesman of the four. She remembered his "gold' denture" (R35-36,41,43).	The one with the gold tooth started the trouble (R36).
Hudspeth is not shown to have been arrested on the night of the disturbance. Technician Fifth Grade George Cross, a colored military policeman, who assisted in making the arrests, testified that he knew Hudspeth' personally and that, he did not see him at or outside the Three Tuns on the night in question (R77,82).
(d)	TRAVERS (convicted of riot and resisting arrest) was identified by Mrs. Holmes as present during the disturbance inside the bar room. She had seen him there before (R19). She did not know however, whether he was one of the four who started the trouble. Four military policemen testified he was outside immediately after the bar room was cleared. He was in "a dangerous condition" (R8l) and an instigator of the trouble (R84). He argued with Technician Fifth Grade George Cross, who was guarding the door, and expressed his determination to go back in and "tear the place up" (R80-81). When Cross blocked his entrance he started a fight. It took three military police to subdue him and put him in the ambulance (RHO-lll).
(e)	CAMERON (convicted of riot and resisting arrest) was one of the four colored soldiers who started the disturbance in the "pub" (R9>36, 50) and took part in the attack on the white soldiers (R36,51,55). He took part in the trouble outside in the Btreet when they all wanted to get
back Inside and "tear the place up" (R82,129). He tried to snatch a military policeman’s club (R94) was one of five men arrested and taken to military police headquarters (R96). They resisted arrest and put up "quite a struggle" before they were forced into the police ambulance (R115» 120).- '
(f)	PUJDER (convicted only of resisting arrest) was identified at the investigation previous to the trial by Mrs. Morris as one of the four colored soldiers who entered the "Three Tuns" "pub" after Mrs.* Holme’s called time and who then asked for drinks and were refused (R41) but she was unable to identify him at the trial. He was out in the street in front of the "pub1* in the disturbance there with those who wanted to go back into the "pub" to "tear the plaoe up" (R82). Help was required to get Pindar into the ambulance to be taken to the police station (R96).
5.	No evidence was offered by the defense. Each accused was duly advised of his rights as a witness and elected to remain silent, .
6.	Certain ruling3 of the court deserve considerations
_ } • ♦ • •
s.
(a)	Immediately following the’ arraignment of the accused, the defense counsel submitted a request to the court "for the seating arrangements of the accused to be altered, and to have the accused and the other soldiers shuffled around", asserting, "This case is primarily one of identification, , and it is obviously too simple to pick out the accused when you have’ all the accused sitting in the front row." The president of the court properly denied this request "for reasons of security and normal procedure" (R6-7). The manual provides that "the accused will be seated as the president direots," vesting the president with full discretionary authority in this particular matter with one specific exception, having no application to the point at issue, viz: "that the accused will be permitted to be near his counsel" (MCM, 1928, par.54, p.42). No abuse of discretion is involved in the denial of defense counsel's request in the instant- case (CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al, par,8, and authorities there cited).
(b)	Defense counsel objected to the barmaid's testimony that her mother was hysterical during the disturbance and that she had "a valvular disease of the heart? The objection was sustained as to evidence of heart trouble and the testimony concerning it was ordered stricken; as to the evidence- that the witness' mother was hysterical, the objection was overruled (R20-21). The court's action was proper. Evidence Of a clearly-discemable emotional reaction manifested during a riot committed in the subject's presence was clearly admissible (CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al, pars.9(c) and (d), and authorities there cited). • * •
(c)	A military policeman was permitted to testify, over strenuous objections interposed by defense counsel, that he had previously, while on duty as a military policeman, witnessed four or five major disturbances of the peace "in this country;" that in each instance he noticed a similarity "in the conduct of the mob, and the measures necessary to restore peace and
6 -
(isi)
order resorted to by the Military Police;" that he had reason to believe that the riot in“which the accused were charged with participating fell into the same pattern because "although everybody was shouting, swearing at one another, raising hand3 and throwing threats at one {mother, only certain men were going about from one group to another and those were the men we tried to get.", Although previous cross-examination had developed that not all the colored soldiers who were milling around outside the Three Tuns after the'eviction of the rioters, were arrested ty the military police, and that some who were arrested were promptly released, without, in either instance, any adequate explanation, the testimony as to the witness' previous observation, in an official capacity, of four or five other "major disturbances of the peace, in this country", and their identity in."pattern" with the riot shown, was clearly inadmissible*
"It is a well established general rule that a litigant cannot be affected by the words or acts of others with whom he is in no way connected, and for whose sayings or doings he is not legally responsible." (22 C.J., sec.832, p.7Al)*
It was apparently adduced and admitted under the erroneous theory that it constituted "expert testimony", available to the prosecution to explain the -discrimination practiced by the military police in their treatment of the soldiers outside the "pub". However, the inadmissible testimony was at most merely faintly corroborative of other competent evidence adduced on the trial, establishing unequivocally the unlawful and riotous* nature of the assemblage* There is certainly no affirmative showing in the record that the substantial rights of any of the accused were injuriously affected*
(d)	During the course of the trial the defense counsel stated "I believe that some of the members of the court have been to the Three Tuna to look over the place. If possible I would like the other members of the court who have not seen the 'Three Tuns' to go there before we meet again." Thereupon the president announced that arrangements would be made "by some means" to have the remaining members of the court visit the Three Tuns before the'next session'of the court (R14.0)'* When the court convened the next day, the president ordered the record to show "thht, in accordance with the expressed desire of the defense counsel, each o"f the members of the court has had the opportunity to view the premises at the Three Tuns Public House", inquiring, at the 'same time, "Does that suffice?" to which the defense counsel replied, "Yes, Sir." (R14&).
’	"The'	practice	of	'viewing the premises' by
a military court is authorized procedure (AW 31). * * *. A 'view of the premises' properly conducted and not coupled with the examination of witnesses stay in many . instances be extremely helpful and inform-atory to the court." (CM ETQ 611, Porter. par,6).
- 7 -
'(182)
The absence of any showing in the record as to how the view was conducted or, indeed, how many members of the court participated, while irregular, may be reasonably attributed to the informality of the defense counsel's request, with which he acknowledged compliance to his own satisfaction.
Such error as was involved was self-invited and cannot be considered as prejudicial to the accused (CM ETO 422, Green: CM .ETO 438, Smith: CM ETO 1052, Geddies et al). The Board of Review however, expresses its disapprobation of an informal view of the premises such as wa3 permitted in this case. Members of a court should not visit the locu3 in quo individually (64 C.J., sec.800, p.1017). A view of the premises should be conducted in a formal manner with all members of the court, the personnel of the prosecution and defense and the accused present. Proper recital of such facts must be made in record of trial (Cf: Diaz v? .United States, 223 U.S. 442,454-, 56 L.Ed., 505,506; Valdez v.' United Stat537/43z; 61 L.Ed., 1242).
(e)	At the close of-the prosecution's testimony, defense counsel’ moved on behalf of each accused for a finding of not guilty of all charges' and specifications. The court properly granted the motion as to accused Miller, who was thereupon released; also, insofar as it pertained to . Charge III and its Specification (resisting arrest), as to the accused . Hudspeth; but overruled the motion as to Hudspeth insofar as it pertained to Charges‘I and II and their specifications, and the motion on behalf of all the remaining accused as to all charges and specifications. Since the defense adduced no evidence whatsoever, the court had for consideration in arriving at its findings the identical evidence which constituted the basis1 for its ruling3 on the motion. In each instance in which the motion was overruled, there was substantial evidence fairly tending to establish every essential element of the offense charged. The action of the court was therefore proper (MCM, 1928, par.71J, p.56; CM ETO 393, Caton and Flkes:
CM ETO 527. Astrella). ’	-
7.	The Specification, Charge I, alleges commission of a riot and depredation at the Three Tuns Public House, in violation of ATT 89. The uncontradicted evidence shows that a casual assemblage of colored American soldiers, spontaneously motivated by wholly unprovoked hallucinations of racial discrimination in a British "pub”, precipitated a tumultuous disturbance by flinging glassware and other movables, including a knife; assisting one another in a demonstration against the proprietress, employees and customers and - later - civilian and military police, opposing them in an effort to restore peace and order; and actually executing their design in a violent and turbulent manner, to the terror of a considerable number” of people. This was a riot in clear violation of Article of War 89 (MCM, 1928, par. 147,2, p.162; CM ETO 804, Qgletree et al; CM ETO 895, Davis et al; CM ETO 1052, Geddies et al). Each of the accused, except Pinder, was identified as being present in the bar room during the riot. Not only is it a fair inference from the testimony of all of the witnesses who were also there at the same time that every colored soldier present participated, but one witness - Ronald P.J. Armstrong - testified directly that "everyone of them did." Corroborating the identification of all (except Hudspeth) who were found guilty of Charge I and its Specification, was the
8
(183)
abundant testimony of their resistance of arrest and the avowed purpose of several respectively to go back in and "tear the place up"* * Hudspeth was definitely identified by Mrs. Holmes as the man whom she refused to serve immediately before the riot started. Her positive identification of him, as well as Mrs. Morris* more tentative identification of the same accused, appeared to hinge largely on his possession of a gold tooth. The record does not disclose, except by such inference as may be drawn from these witnesses’ testimony, that he actually had one. Their testimony does, however, furnish substantial evidence of Hudspeth’s participation. The record clearly supports the findings of guilty, as to the accused Davis, Travers, Scott, Hudspeth and Cameron, of Charge I and its Specification.
8.	The Specification, Charge II, alleges joint assault with intent to do bodily harm on persons shown to have been injured in the riot by menacing and striking them on the head and other parts of the body with dangerous things, to-wit: beer mugs, bottles, glasses and knives. Each of the persons named was shown to have been menaced or injured during the riot by one of the "dangerous things," mentioned in the Specification, Although the evidence does not show that Davis, Scott and Hudspeth, the three accused found guilty of Charge II and its Specification, personally committed an assault on all the persons named therein, it does show that these victims were all assaulted by negro soldiers present in the bar room during the riot. Each rioter was legaily chargeable with the others' unlawful acts to which he contributed by his participation in the riot, to the same extent as if
he were the sole offender (CM ETO 1052, Geddies et al, par.12, pp.28-30, and. authorities there cited). Since the evidence shows that the "dangerous things" specified were used in a manner likely to produce bodily harm and in reckless disregard of the safety of others, it Is not a defense that the assaulting rioters did not have in mind the particular persons injured (MCM, 1928, par. 14% and fl, p.180; CM ETO 422, Green). . The evidence compels the inference that each rioter had knowledge of each other rioter’s intent to inflict bodily harm by the use to which all were putting the "dangerous things" specified, in reckless disregard of the safety of others. The evidence therefore, supports the findings of guilty as to Davis, Scott and Hudspeth, of Charge II and its Specification (CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al;
CM ETO 1585, Houseworth).
9.	The Specification, Charge III, alleges wrongful and unlawful resistance, by force and violence, of lawful arrest, AH of the accused except Hudspeth were arrested by the military policemen named in the Specification, in the process of quelling the riot after the rioters had been forcibly- evicted from the bar room of the-Three Tuns to the- roadway outside. The evidence of violent resistance to lawful arrest is clear in the case of each accused found guilty of Charge III and Its Specification. Davis, Pinder and Travers each expressed a determination to go back in and "tear the place up". All five cursed, threatened and wrestled with the arresting officers. Davis, by jumping on one’s back, enabled a soldier being arrested to escape. Scott displayed an open knife and tried to use it on a military policeman, Cameron seized another's club. The record amply supports the findings of guilty, as to the accused Davis, Pinder, Travers, Scott and Cameron, of Charge III and its Specification (CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al).
- 9
(184)
10. The charge sheet shows that with no prior service each accused
was inducted on the date duration and -six months!	and at the place shown below, to serve for the		
Accused	Age	Place	Data
ARTHUR A. DAVIS	30	Fort Benning, Georgia.	23 Feb 1942
WILLIAM H. PINDER	30	Baltimore, Maryland.	7 May 1942
MILTON F. TRAVERS	29	Fort Geo.G.Meade, Maryland.	21 May 1941 •
RUFUS (MI) SCOTT	26	Baltimore, Maryland.	21 May 1941
PLUMER W. HUDSPETH	25	Ralls, Texas.	2 Nov 1942
OZARK (NMI) CAMERON	25	Fort Benning, Georgia.	24 May 1941
All of above named accused were inducted into military service the provisions of Selective Service and Training Act 1940.			pursuant to
11.	(a) The approved sentences of Davis and Scott for violation of Articles of War 89, 93 and 96, and of Hudspeth for violation of Articles of War 89 and 93* each to dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor, Davis for three years, Scott for four years and Hudspeth, for three years, are legal.
The designation of a disciplinary barracks as the place of confinement of the named accused is authorized. Pursuant to Cir. 210, WD, 14 Sep 1943, sec.VI, par.2a, as amended by Cir. 331, WD, 21 Dec 1943, sec.II, par.2, the place of confinement should be changed from Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York to Eastern Branch,- United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven. New York.
(b)	The approved sentences of Travers and Cameron for violation of • Articles of War 89 and 96* each to dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for two years, are legal. The designation of a disciplinary barracks as the place of confinement of the named accused is authorized. However, the place of confinement of Travers and Cameron should be changed from Eastern Branch, United -States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York to the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England and their sentences to dishonorable discharge should be suspended during period of confinement (par. 8 & and c, Cir. #72, ETOUSA, 9 Sep 1943).
■ (c) The approved sentence of Pinder,. dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for one year, is authorized. The accused Pinder, was -convicted of an offense under AW 96 for which no statutory maximum is fixed (AW 45).
The Table of Maximum Punishments (MEM, 1928, par.104^, pp.97-101) does not prescribe a maximum punishment for the offense of which this accused was convicted. The Table however, prescribes one year as the- maximum punishment for the closely related offenses of assaulting a noncommissioned officer in the execution of his office, and likewise for assaulting a sentinel in the execution of his duty. The sentence 1b therefore legal. The offense of which this accused was found guilty requires confinement in.a disciplinary barracks and not in a penitentiary (AW 42). However, the place of confine-
- 10
(185)
ment of Pinder should be changed from Eastern Branch, United States Dis- \ ciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York to the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England; and his sentence to dishonorable discharge should be suspended during the period of confinement (par.8 Jj and c, Cir. #72, ETOUSA., 9 Sep 1943).
12.	The court was legally constituted and Jiad Jurisdiction of the persons and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.
- 11 -
1st lad*
TO, Branch Office TJAG,, with ETOUSA. "6 APR 1944 TO: Commanding General, TUI Air, Force Service Command, APO 633, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of:
Private ARTHUR A. DAVIS Private WILLIAM H. PINDER T/5 MILTON F. TRAVERS Private RUFUS (Ml) SCOTT
Private PLUMER I. HUDSPETH _________________
all of 3,939tfr <faw^rpftgter Cyagflgy Trw?^ ,(Aia)>
1512th Q.l.-,Trk.i;a.Avn.(SD) . 1511th q.M.Trk.Peg.
Ayg«(Sp)» and
Private.OZARK (Ml) CAMERON (34062165),
1944th Q.M. Trk.Co.Avn. ■ 1512th Q.M.Trk.Bn«ATn«-(Sp).
1511th Q.M.Trk.Reg.Avn.(Sp).
attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the sentences and the following findings, as to the several accused;
. (a) Davis and Scott are guilty of Charges I, II and IU and their respective specifications;
(b)	Travers and Cameron are guilty of Charges I and HI and their respective specifications;
(c)	Hudspeth is guilty of Charges I and H and their respective specifications;
(d)	Pinder is guilty of Charge III and its Specification,
(33199801) (33062188), (33062138), (38338787),
The holding is hereby approved, .Under the provisions of Article of War 50£, you now have authority to order execution of the sentences of all the accused.
2,	Pursuant to par,8 £ and £, Cir. #72, ETOUSA, 9 Sep 1943, the place of confinement of the accused Pinder, Travers and Cameron should be changed from Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New Tork to Disciplinary Training Center #2912, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England and the dishonorable discharges should be suspended during their respective periods of confinement,
3,	Pursuant to Cir. 210, ID, 14 Sep 1943, see.VT, par.2fi, as amended by Cir. 331, ID, 21 Dec 1943, sec.II, par.2, the place of confinement of the accused Davis, Scott and Hudspeth should be changed from Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New Tork to Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven. New Tork.
4,	However, notwithstanding the foregoing I recommend that the place of confinement of all of the accused be designated as Disciplinary Training
r ;■ c a 2
-1 -
(187)
Center #2912, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England and that the dishonorable dischargee be suspended during their respective periods of confinement. There was not any great degree of viciousness indicated in the conduct of any of the accused. Rather the affair resembled a saloon brawl which in civil life would have earned the offenders police court sentences only.
5.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number cf the record in this office is ETO 1284. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 1284).
£. U. I&CI-JiJLL,,
Brigadier General, United States Amy, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
- 2
\
#(189)
