#(285)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General ’■with the European Theater of Operations APO 871
BOARD CF REVIEW ETO 1017
UNITED ST AT E S	)
)
!
Private ROBERT Ai MCCUTCHEON	)
(20515936), Company C, Uth	)
Replacement Battalion.	)
“ 9 DEC 1943
CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES CP SUFPLI, EUROPEAN THEATER CP OPERATIONS.
Trial by G.C.M., convened at London, England 29 October. 19h3.	Sentence:
Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor fo£ 30 years. The United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTM and SARGENT, Judge Advocates
1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.
2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications!
.	•	.V	•
CHARGE It Violation of- the 58th Article of War-.
Specification:	In	that	Private	Robert A* McCutcheon,
• Company C, Uth Replacement Battalion, ETOUSA, did, at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about lU December 19U2, desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he .was apprehended at London,
. England, on or about 2 October 19U3.
CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of Wa*.
Specification: In that Private Robert A. McCutcheon,
Company C, Uth Replacement Battalion, ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 2 October 19U3, without lawful authority appear in a the uniform of a .commissioned officer, and wrongfully represent himself to be an officer commissioned in the army of the United States!
CHARGE III:' Violation of the 93rd Article of War.
Specification 1:	In	that	Private	Robert	A.	McCutcheon,
Company C, Uth Replacement Battalion, ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about % August 19U3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one khaki Bhirt, value of about four dollars ($U.OO), one pair of pink trousers, of the
CONFIDENTIAL. ” 1 ~
(286)
CONFIDENTIAL
value of about eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50), the property of 2nd Lt.,
Lewis H. Walker, 559th Bombardment Squadron, 387th Bombardment Group,
ETOUSA.
Specification 2: (Nolle prosequi by direction of appointing authority).
CHARGE Tft Violation of the 9lith Article of War. ^
(Nolle prosequi -by direction of appointing authority).
Specification: (Nolle prosequi by direction of. appointing authority).	'
He pleaded guilty to the Specification of Charge 1 "except the words ' 'desert* and 'in desertion', substituting therefor the words 'absent himself without leave from* and 'without leave'; of the excepted words.
Not Guilty; of the substituted words. Guilty", and not guilty to Charge I but guilty of a violation of Article of War 61, guilty to Charge II and its. Specification, and guilty to Specification 1, Charge III and Charge III. He was found guilty of all charges and specifications upon which he was tried. Evidence of one previous‘Conviction^J’fJSnrt-martial for desertion involving an absence of 10 days in violation of Article of War 58, and for attempting to defraud a department store in violation of Article of War 96 was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorable discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may. direct for 30 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50^.
3* The evidence for the prosecution is substantially as follows:
The defense stating that it had no objection thereto, a certified
extract copy of the.morning report of accused's organization was admitted
in evidence, which recites that he went absent without leave on lU December
19l|2 (R6; Pros.Exil). It was stipulated that accused's organization was
at Lichfield, England and that he was in the military service (R6).
*
On 2 October 19h3, Staff Sergeant William Slevin, C.I.D. Detachment, APO 887 saw accused enter a building numbered 38 Redcliffe Square, London, wearing the uniform of a captain of the United States Air Force, and carrying1 a type of trench coat worn by officers. Slevin and an agent named Kozak went to a flat on the second.floor of the building and knocked at the door, which was opened by accused. He was then dressed In officer's pink trousers and an "O.D.n lightweight shirt. Upon being asked if he was Robert McCutcheon, accused replied that he was Captain Walker of the United States Air Force and produced "an identity" which bore "his resemblance of a picture" and contained the description "Captain Harold L. Walker, U.S. Air Force, from R.A.F.". He also produced identity tags issued to Lieutenant Lewis H. Walker, stating that He had changed his
\
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL*
(287)
GonfidenM
name because he preferred to be kjaojsn. as "Hal*. Slevln left on the pretence of making an investigation to pee if there was a Captain Harold L. Walker, and returned to inform accused that there was no Captain Harold L* Walker in t)ie United States Air Force. Accused then said "Well, I guess you have got me. I am McCutcheon" (R6-8).
The defenpe stating that it had no objection thereto, the following exhibits which, with one exception (Pros.Ex.lli) were found in the flat of accused or on his person, were identified by Slevin and admitted in evidence* blouse and shirt worn by accused (R8j Pros.Exs. 2,3); coat which accused had carried on his arm (R8-9i Pros.Ex.U)j two pairs of officerfe pink trousers, one of which was worn by accused, and two officer’s shirts (R9; Pros.Exs. 5#6,7)j officer's coat with captain's bars, battle dress, officer Aip Force model and two pairs of officer's olive drab trousers (RIO; ProsExs. 8,9,10); officer's cap with captain's insignia, picture, of accused in an enlisted man's uniform with sergeant's stripes, picture of accused with an unknown friend, both as sergeants, and a pass for the period 11 - 16 August 19U3, made out to Technical Sergeant R. McCutcheon which was found on the person of a deserter from the Canadian merchant marine (RIO-11;.Pros.Exs. 11,12,13,11;) ; a "home made" letter of notification of the transfer, with the rank of second lieutenant, of "plight Sergeant" Harold L. Walker from the Royal Air Force to the United States Army Air Force and two pictures of accused in the uniform of a United States Amy Air Force lieutenant (R12; Pros.Exs. 15,16,17); an application for leave of absence which was, according to the testimony of Slevin issued to Captain Harold Walker, the description of the exhibit itself, however, being -teat of a "Grounded certificate" (R12jPrqs.Ex.l8)j an order "made up by the accused" citing his promotion from’ second lieutenant to captain, and identification tags issued to Lewis H. Walker and worn by accused when apprehended (R13; Pros.Exs. 19,20)j an obliterated and altered official A.G.O. form 65-U shown by accused to Slevin and containing, according to. the testimony of Slevin his picture and the name "Harold L. Waljcer, Captain, Air Corps," the description of the exhibit itself, however, being an AGO card belonging to "Lewis H. Walker" (R13j Pros .Ex. 21); two ."hope-m^ade" identification cards bearing accused's pictures in an American officer's uniform with the words "Harold L. Walker Capt AC FR RAF to US", one being a purported form W.D., A.G.O. 65-U and the other an identification and membership card for members of the "133 Eagle Squadron only" (Rllij Pros .Pics. 22,23); a pilot and. crew member physical record card in the name of Captain Harold Walker and a "home made leave of absence* in the name of Captain Harold L. Walker (Rlli-l5; Pros. Exs«2l;,2£)j a picture of accused in the uniform of an American Arny Air Force captain with several service ribbons thereon, and a "short snorter" (Rlf>; Pros.Exs. 26,27); ''several rubber stamps bearing legends of an official military character and some ink pads (Rl£-l6; Pros.Exs,28,29).
Accused wa£ taken to the investigating officer at 33 Davies Street, London (Rl6).	.
On 13 August 19li3 Lieutenant Lewis H. Walker, 559th Bombardment Squadron, 387th Bombardment Group was in London on pass and registered at the Red Cross Club, Princess Gardens. . When he awakened "in the morning"
MNFIDENTIM. “ 3 “
(288)	CONFIDENTIAL
he found missing a shirt, and a pair of trousers which contained his "war Department pass" (AGO Card), his identification tags, about ten ■ shillings in .change, a knife and a cigarette lighter. JLt the trial he identified Pros .Ex. 6 and Pros.Ex. 20 as his missing trousers and identification tags. He also identified Pros.Ex.21 as l£s missing AGO card. ("War Department Pass") by the signature thereon of one. Major . Kilgore, aqd also by his serial number, the last digit of which had been changed. He did not give accused permission to take his property (Rl$-U).
On 2$ October 19h3, after being warned as to his rights, accused made a statement to Staff Sergeant James D. Murphy, C.I.D., Theater Provost Marshal's Office, APO 88?.' Murphy identified the statement which had been reduced to writing and thee signed and acknowledged by accused. -It was admitted in evidence with reference to the charge of desertion only .(H17-18; Pros.Ex.30). Accused stated therein in pertinent part that he went abs.ent without leave on 3 or U December 1?U2. and eventually went to LQndon.' -During his absence he lived on money solicited from American soldiers, prostitutes, and from women with whom he lived. He received money from the Rro,ceeds of worthless checks cashed by another soldier, and used fictitious passes which he made up. for his own use. He also made out passes for the use of others. He talked, to various, sailors about going to Africa but was told that the journey was impossible. Part of the .time he wore the chevrons of a technical sergeant, U.S.A.A.F., gunner's wings and an Air Force shoulder patch, but during his absence never wore civilian clothing. He met an American soldier named Gibson with wham he planned to steal articles from various, clubs and to dispose of the stolen property. With this idea in mind, during the latter part of August they went to the Princess Garden Red Cross Club and registered, using fictitious passes which accused had executed. One night Gibson stole an officer's sun tan shi,rt, a pair of officer's pink trousers, identification tags and an A.G.O. form No.6£-U belonging to Lieutenant Lewis Walker, 0-662703. Because the lieutenant's description fitted, accused they decided that he should impersonate the officer. . He altered the A.G.O. card by burning a corner of it bearing the name "Lewis H.n, changing the last number in the serial number from "3" to "8", erasing the name "Lewis H. Walker" and insering "Harold L. Walker" and by adding the words "Promoted to Capt. 8/3Q/U3, Maj. L.C. Landis". He also substituted his own picture for that of Lieutenant Walker. Accused carried the card in his identification folder from then on. . The following day they purchased a United States Army battle dress jacket of a type used by members of the Air Force, and also a peaked officer's cap. Accused wore the stolen trousers and shirt, together with the battle dress jacket and peaked hat. On several occasions he pawned articles which had been dolen by Gibson, and they divided the proceeds. He made purchases of' officer's clothing and insignia, and wore, several articles of offiqer's clothing received from Gibson. During the time he impersonated an officer . he wore the insignia of a second lieutenant and captain, and wore without light the "Purple Heart Ribbon, the D.F.C. ribbon, Air,Medal ribbon, with three clusters, and the British D.F.M. ribbon". He used the names of "Lewis H. Walker" and "Harold L. Walker". He "made up" the "short snorter" by writing the names thereon himself, and on several occasions falsely
stated thah_.he served in the "R.A.F.^and the^Oanadian Air Force.___.He
further identified several of the articles found in his possession when
Confidential
(289)
apprehended on 2 October 19l*3 at 38 Redcliffe Square (Pros.Ex.30).
U. Upon being advised of his rights accused elected to make an unsworn written statement (R19; Def.Ex.l). In brief, accused stated that he had been a soldier since 27 April 19l*0 and was sent to England under guard. His morale was then low. He was "afraid to die" and felt he had received unfair treatment. He was "completely strong headed" and went absent without leave without "giving anything a second thought".
■While absent he heard that desertion in time of war might result in being shot by a firing squad, or life imprisonment. Accordingly, he thought it would be "just as bad" for him if he surrendered. He tried to board a ship for Africa with the hope of joining a unit at the battle front. He had realized the error of his conduct and aksed for a chance to redeem himself (Def.Ex.l).	'
3.	The certificate of previous convictions (Pros.Ex.3l) does not contain the date of the commission of the offense alleged under AW 96 (attempt to defraud). The defense did not object to the receipt of the evidence. Such an omission did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused (CM 210683, Le Gette).
6.	In view of the plea of guilty of absence without leave with respect to the offense of desertion alleged in Charge I and Specification thereunder, the only question presented for consideration is whether the evidence is legally sufficient to establish the requisite intent to desert. Accused's prolonged absence of almost ten months was terminated by apprehension. Although he was for several months in the vicinity of military installations
he did not surrender to military authority. He lived on money solicited from. soldiers and prostitutes, on the proceeds of thefts in which he participated, posted as and wore clothing of a certain commissioned officer, used this officer's identity card which he had,altered, and his identification tags.
He also forged passes for his own use, and tried to board a ship to Africa. ‘
The evidence was legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and its Specification (CM ETO 932, Mosser; CM ETO 913 Piemo;
CM ETO 823, Poteetj CM ETO 800, Ungardj CM ETO 7U0, Lane). The entry of 6 January 191*3 in Pros.Ex.l (morning report) citing the change in accused's status from absent without leave to desertion, was an administrative conclusion only and was, therefore, inadmissible. No objection to its introduction was made by the defense.
The pleas of guilty to Charge II and its Specification and to
Specification 1, Charge III and to Charge III, were also fully supported
by the evidence, including both statements of accused. It was alleged in
Specification 1, Charge HI that the offense of larceny was committed
23 August 19U3, and accused, in his statement to Murphy said that the theft
occurred, during the latter part of August. It might be inferred, however,
from the testimony of the owner of the property. Lieutenant Walker, that
the theft occurred during the night of 13 August. The variance^ if any,
was immaterial (CM 172183, Tourey).	’
* "
7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of age and that
he enlisted at Dayton, Ohio 27 April 19l*0 for three years, his service being governed by the Service Extension Act.
Confidential
-5-
CONhUpTiaL
8* The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of-brial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of the charges and specifications upon which accused was tried, and the sentence.	\
9.	Pursuant to paragraph 9c, GO # 37, ETOUSA,' 9 September 19U2 as amended by GO # 63, ETOUSA, U December 19l;2 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may.be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same order a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement of accused ir>4 penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion^in time of war. (AST 1*2).
Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
ge Advocate
CONFIDENTIAL
(291)
CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind. - q npn 1943 TO, Branch Office of TJAG with ETOUSA.	TO: Commanding
General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.
1.	In the case of Private ROBERTA. McCUTCHEQN (20?1?936),
Company 0, Uth Replacement Battalion attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient ,io support the findings of guilty of the charges and specifications upon which he was tried, and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of HITar 50j you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.
2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this ' office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. . The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1017. For convenience of feference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: ' (ETO 1017).	.
^ E. C. McNEIL,
Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(293)
