#(1)



Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD CF REVIEW ETO 839

UNITED ST AXIS )

Private WARREN G. NELSON	j

(20503176), Company "A",	)

4-th Replacement Battalion,	)

19 OCT 1943

WESTERN BASE SECTION, SKVICES CF SUPPLY, ‘EUROPEAN THEATER CF OPERATIONS.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, 27 September 1943, Sentence! Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. The Federal Reformatory, Chllllcothe, Ohio,

HOLDING by the BOARD CF REVIEW RITEEt, TAN BEKSCHOTEN and SARCS'.’T, Judge Advocates

1, The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2, Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications t

* CHARGE It Violation of the 61st Article of War.

Specification* In that Private Warren G, Nelson, Company A., Fourth Replacement Battalion, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, Bigland, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his Organization at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, from on or about 1530 hours 29 August 1943,until he was apprehended at Nuneaton, Warwickshire, England, an or about 1730 hours, 8 September 1943,

3HARGE II* Violation of the 93rd Article of War, Specification* In that Private Warren G. Nelson, -Company A,, Fourth Replacement Battalion, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, Bigland, did, at 104 Holly Lane, Baddesley, Ensor, Atherstone, Warwickshire, England, cm or about • 31 August 1943, feloniously take, steal and carry

REGRADED

ENTIAL BY AMITY OF......L

rJAG



By	___

MCrC.Exitc.ta tt.Fm J.£g=

1
(2)

CONFIDENTIAL

away nineteen pounds (19&) lawful money of the United Kingdom, of the exchange'value of about1 ($76.66) Seventy-six dollars sixty-six cents, the property of Albert Edward Gee. ‘

Be pleaded guilty to, and was found guilty of, »li charges specifications. Evidence of one summary two special court-martial'convictions for absence without leave for 6, 16	A6	days respectively, was intro-

duced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become'due to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for five years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, ChiUicothe,‘Ohio as the place of confinement forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50J-.

»

3* No evidence was presented in explanation of the dircumstances or in mitigation of the offenses. The effect in law of the plea of guilty is that of a confession of the offenses as charged. The record shows accused was represented by counsel and understood the effect of his plea of guilty.

»***. While it was no doubt the practice former- • ly, as it is now in the majority of cases in which this plea is interposed, not to take any evidence whatever, the fact that some evidence was necessary, to a comprehension of a considerable proportion of such cases seems to have been appreciated at an early period. *«**. In a General Order ***» of 1830, it was declared **►* that* *In every case in which a prisoner pleads guilty, it is the duty of the court-martial, notwithstanding, to receive and to report in its'proceedings such'evidence as may afford a full knowledge of the circumstances; it being essential that the facts and particulars should be known to those whose duty it is to*report on the case, or who have discretion in carrying the sentence into effect•* *#**.

Later, in No.21 of the Orders of 1833, the General Commanding, in remarking that the old rule that no evidence should be received with the plea of guilty, had been abrogated by recent Orders, disapproves the action of a certain court-martial in disregarding the same and refusing to allow the Judge advocate to show, notwithstanding such plea, the facts and circumstances of the case, which - it is declared - are essential both to the reviewing officer and to the President as the pardoning power. *■***» (Winthrop'a Military Law &

Precedents, 1920 Reprint, pp.278-279)•

- 2 —

COM c; o^TIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(3)

Occasional statements are found in the reports of courts-martial cues similar to the following!

***** After a plea of guilty, it is not necessary for the prosecution to Mh> out a case ******

(CM 118766 (1918), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, per*378(3), p.189.

"TJhder ordinary circumstances, a plea of guilty is sufficient, in the absence of any evidence by the prosecution to Justify a finding of guilty. **** (CM 134185 (1919), Dig.Ops.JAO.,

1912-1940, par.378(3), p.190).

Legal treatises on Practices and Procedure are brief in discussing guilty pleas!

"The effect of this plea (guilty) is a record admission of whatever is well alleged in the indictment. If the latter is insufficient, it confesses nothing; but if good, the court >	proceeds	to	sentence	******	(2	Bishop’s	Hew

Criminal Procedure, 2nd Id., par.795(2), p,620).

v	•	«	•	-	*	♦

The more recent practice of both our civil and military courts clearly inclines towards requiring some evidence to be produced in explanation of the circumstances of the commission of the offense that the court, the reviewing and the clemency authorities may each intelligently function!

. "In addition to a careful investigation into the circumstances surrounding the plea, the court ought always to hear evidence to determine the degree of punishment ***** Ho court ought to accept a judicial confession as.final until, a most.searching investigation has been made into all the conditions and surrounding circumstances** (Wharton’s Criminal Evidence,

Vol.2, par.587, pp.975-976)..

"While it is true that a plea of.guilty admits • the facts set forth in the Specification, it has always been deemed.to be the better practice for the prosecution to present a prims, facie case against accused by competent evi-'dence notwithstanding the plea* *****. (CM 236359 (1943), Bui*JAG., July 1943, see.4l6(3), p.270).

While it is self-evident that both good practice and an intelligent consideration of the elements Involved in a plea of guilty require

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

some evidence of the circumstances of the offense to be presented in the _ record, which evidence was denied to the court herein, the numerous letters and signed statements.of, the principals involved.Included among the attached papers accon$»nying the record of this .trial, rather fully detail the entire circumstances of the offenses charged, and may be considered, in this case, to supply the information essential for the use of reviewing and clemency authorities.

4.	The accused is 23 years 3 months old. He enlisted at Akron, Ohio, on 15 July 1940, with no prior service. His service period is governed by the Service Extension Act 1941.

5.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.

6.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ET0U5A, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ET00SA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner say be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the crime of larceny of property valued in excess of $50.00 (18 U.S.C., sec.466),

As accused is under 31 years of age with.a sentence of not more than 10 years, the designation of the federal^Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio^as the place of confinement Is correct (War Department letter AG 253 (2-6-41)

E, 26 February 1941)*	i





Judge Advocate Judge Advocate Judge Advocate

- 4 «

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(5)

lot Ind.

TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. * 9	1949	TO*	Commanding

General, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA., APO 515, U.S. Amy.

1.	In the case of Private TORRES G. HELSCN (20503176), Coapany "A", Ath Replacement Battalion, APO 515, attention is incited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of ti^al "is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved* Under the provisions of Article of War 50J- you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

* v 2* When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The. file number of the record in this office is ETO 839. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 839).

.Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(7)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations . APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 850

UNITED STA.TES )

)

i

Sergeant HERBERT R. ELKINS	)

(11016741), 86th Air Transport	)

Squadron, 27th Air Transport	)

Group.	)

22 NOV 1943

VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 575, 16 September 1943. Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, suspended, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for two years. 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW BITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch.Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:

• CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

. Specification* In that Sergeant Herbert R. Elkins,

86th Air Transport Squadron, 27th Air Transport Group, AAF 575, APO 635 did, at AAF 575, APO 635 .during the period from about 15 October,

1942 to about 18 January 1943, feloniously embezzle hy fraudulently converting to his own use a sum of money, to wit* 1304. 13. 8.

($1229.40) the same having been received hy him 5 in his capacity as the non-commissioned officer in charge of the said Post Exchange.

He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of pre-sbus convictions was introduced.. He wan sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

such place as the reviewing authority may'direct for two years. The reviewing authority approved the.sentence hut.suspended the execution of the dishonorable discharge until the\soldier's release from confinement and designated 2912th Disciplinary Training CenterShepton Mallet, Somerset, England as the; place of confinement. ;	.

The result of, the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Order No, 33, Headquarters VIII Force Service Command, APO 633 dated 9 October 1943• .

3,	The evidence for the prosecution shows that on 15 October 1942, Technical Sergeant Fred T. Gove, 86th Air Transport Squadron, then acting first sergeant of the headquarters detachment, VIII. Air Force Service Command, which was stationed at AAF Station 575, placed accused in charge of the post exchange upon verbal orders of the commanding officer. Accused operated the exchange from l5 October 1942 until Sergeant Anderson assumed charge during the first-pert of 1943 (R15-17),

•i During October, November and December 1942 Sergeant Harry R. McCall,'86th Air Transport Squadron, who was accused's, room-mate and who had knpwn him about a year and 10 months, occasionally accompanied him to an office on Commercial Road where he obtained tally-out slips.

They then went to the "Docks" where accused collected post exchange supplies, McCall also helped him to display the supplies for sale and to sell them,.. Accused kept the money received in a wall locker "until it was paid over to the quartermaster", McCall had never Seen him pay . any money over, but had observed him working on his records. He kept his tally-outs and requisitions in a book which he.had in his wall locker •-McCall noticed no receipts for payment of money fop post exchange supplies in accused's possession (R21-24.)..

, During November and December 1942* a person drawing post exchange supplies would bring his tally-out slip from an office on Commercial Road to Victoria Docks,_ Both the deliverer and receiver of the goods wouid , first check the oriler by the tally-out. After the order was,checked and loaded each would sign the tally-out. The signature .of, the receiver, on the tally-out would indicate that the supplies had been delivered to him. Master Sergeant Jesse A. Dudley and Sergeant Ennis D. Preston, both of , Depot G 30, SOS who were stationed at the docks and checked tally-outs, identified their respective signatures appearing on certain tally-outs which also bore the signatures of either Sergeant "Herbert R. Elkins" or Sergeant "H. R. Elkins", No proof as to the authenticity of the signatures "Herbert R. Elkins" or "H. E. Elkins" was established in evidence. One tally-out (Ex.H) bore the signature of a checker other than Sergeant . Dudley or Sergeant Preston. Seven.tally-outs were admitted in evidence , "for what they are worth" pursuant to a stipulation between the prosecution and defense. . They covered a period beginning 7 November 1942 and ending 30 December 1942 (R24.-27J Pros.Exs. B - H),

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(9)

First Lieutenant Leonard Krieger, Air Corps, 27th Air Transport Group was adjutant of his organization until 1 November (1942). He testified that the post exchange, was operated on a cash basis up to 15 October but he did not know whether it was operated on a cash or credit basis after that time as his duty was changed on 1 November. During the time he was adjutant, all purchases were for cash, no book-keeping system wa3 established nor were there any records, books, checks or sales receipts. Until 1 November (1942) as adjutant he signed requisitions presented to him by accused which were in triplicate and which contained a list of what was to be requisitioned for the post exchange. He did not sign receipt form 389 or any similar form of receipt transferring money. During this period accused never turned in to him any money, deposit slips or receipts, nor did Lieutenant Krieger ever transmit to the finance department money belonging to the post exchange. No sales officer was appointed during the time that he was adjutant (R3-8).

On both direct and cross-examination Lieutenant Krieger testified that he never authorized accused either verbally or in writing to purchase supplies for the post exchange. However, on cross-examination when asked if his signature was on a certain document he admitted that "It looks like it" (R4,6). The letter, which was introduced in evidence by the defense with the consent of the prosecution (R6; Def.Sx.l) was dated 21 October 1942 and was addressed to the officer in charge, U.S. Army Exchange Service, ETOUSA. It described accused as of Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, VIII Air Force Service Command, and authorized him to draw post exchange supplies for 20 officers and 65 enlisted men stationed at Hendon Airdrome, Also introduced in evidence by the defense with consent of the prosecution was Circular #67, Headquarters, ETOUSA, dated 25 October 1942 which contained a paragraph entitled "SATES STORE SERVICE IN THE ETOUSA" (R7; Def,

Ex.2),

On 7 December (1942) Captain Russell M. Kolyneaux, Air Corps, 86th Air Transport Squadron relieved Lieutenant Krieger as station adjutant. Accused gave him some papers to sign as adjutant but he could not recall their nature. He never received from accused any money, sales or deposit slips to be transmitted to the finance office at 7/idewing or elsewhere, nor did he ever sign any receipts issued by the finance department showing payment for post exchange supplies. He "was under the impression" that the supplies were paid for on a cash basis but did not know whether payment had actually been made. In January (1943) accused was relieved of his* duty as the non-commissioned officer in charge of the post exchange and a Sergeant Anderson replaced him. As the result of a letter received in May (1943) Captain Molyneux detailed a Lieutenant Brown to make certain investigations concerning the finances of the exchange and a Lieutenant Zipper was subsequently appointed, investigating officer (R17-21).

First Lieutenant Harry Zipper, Air Corps, 86th Air Transport Squadron, found as a result of his investigation* that during the time accused operated the post exchange he made seven purchases of post exchange

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

supplies, the first tally-out being dated 7 November 1942, and the last tally-out being dated 30 December 1942. Lieutenant Zipper found on file at the finance office, SOS copies of these tally-outs. Upon investigation he found no copies of receipted payments at the finance offices at T/idewing, London, or at the SOS headquarters, Cheltenham for these quartermaster supplies which had been issued to accused. He also made inquiries at "Kew- Gardens" because that office at one time had maintained some of the London finance1 records, but found no financial records on file. An examination of the records at Victoria Docks disclosed that no letter of authority (to purchase supplies') addressed to accused and signed by an officer was on file (R8-I4).	5

Captain Francis W. Anderson, Finance Department1, VIII Air Force Service Command, disbursing officer. Camp Griffiss (Widewing) testified that when payments for post exchange supplies were made to his office,’ the post exchange officer concerned would sign and Submit in quadruplicate a receipt (form 389). Captain Anderson would "receipt for the money" and return one copy to the post exchange officer. He would send one copy to the SOS finance officer, another copy went with his original papers and the fourth copy was placed with his retained records. Every payment that was made through his office would be. shown in the office records. At the request of Lieutenant Zipper, Captain Anderson had examined the records of his office and identified a certain letter bearing his signature which gave the results of his examination. It was stated in the letter which was addressed to Lieutenant Zipper, dated 10 August 1943 and admitted in evidence, that the retained office records indicated that no collections on Form1389 were made from Captain Molyneux as sales officer for Detachment Headquarters Squadron, VIII Air Force Service Command, during the period 16 October to 31 December 1942, and that the-first collections deposited with the office to his credit were made on or about 20 January 1943. It was further stated therein that the examination disclosed that no collections were made during the period 16 October to 31 December 1942 from any sales officers/Form 389 for credit to anyunit in the seven separate amounts set forth therein. The seven‘amounts corresponded to the seven totals appearing on prosecutlorh Exhibits B - H (R33-35J Pros.Ex.J).

Warrant Officer Junior Grade Russell H, Dawson, Finance Department SOS (Cheltenham) testified that under the post exchange system in effect during October, November and December 1942, the commanding officer of any organization would designate a sales officer for the organization who would requisition supplies from a quartermaster depot. ' This officer would receive a tally-out representing the supplies drawn, one copy of which would be retained by the organization and one copy of which 'would be sent to the finance department, SOS where it was checked and filed with the account of the sales officer concerned. The sales officer would send payments to the finance department accompanied by WD QMC Form 389, a copy of which was placed in the individual file of the sales officer. The

“ 4 "

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL



(ID

finance office at Widening was under the "office administrator" of the finance office, SOS. If payment for post exchange supplies was made to any finance office under -the jurisdiction of witness' office, the records of his office would normally show such payment because copies of the cash collection voucher should be forwarded to the finance office, SOS from the office where the money was paid. Mr. Dawson further testified that the. seven i&lly-outs admitted in evidence (Pros.Exs. B - H) had been on file in his office. Two of the seven belonged to Captain Molyneux' account. The records of-the finance office,.SOS did not contain the name of a sales officer for the detachment concerned before Captain Molyneux; Also, according to the records of his office the first payment on behalf of the organization involved was made by Captain Molyneux on 27 January 194-3 in the sum of 82 pounds, 1 shilling and 9 pence which amount was the total of a tally-out dated 18 January 1943 (which was not introduced in evidence). A survey of the account made up at the finance office, SOS for the period 7 November 1942 to 23 April 1943, disclosed that the unit concerned received post exchange supplies valued at 899 pounds, no shillings, 1 pence and that there had been received in payment of this amount 593 pounds, 16 shillings, 3 pence leaving a difference unaccounted for of 305 pounds, 3 shillings, 10 pence. It could not be determined that the seven tally-outs admitted in evidence as Exhibits B - H covering the period 7 November 1942 - 3d December 1942 were actually the ones remaining unpaid, because there was no requirement that payments be allocated to any particular tally-outs. However, the unpaid sum of 305 pounds, 3 shillings, 10 pence approximated the total of. the seven exhibits B - H (304 pounds, 13 shillings, 8 pence), the latter sum being the amount alleged in the Specification (R28-33)+ .

4.	For the defense, accused testified that about 15 October 1942, he "took over the handling of the post exchange" from a Sergeant Daer.

He received a letter from Lieutenant Krieger authorizing him to draw the supplies and for the first two weeks obtained the supplies at Regents Parks for which he paid cash (R38-39)- He then received notice from Regents Park that the supplies would thereafter be obtainable at Victoria Docks and that a new system would be established 1 November. From then on he made out his requisitions r took them to 110 Commercial Road, went from there to the Victoria Docks where he drew goods on the basis of the tally-out slips which he signed. He put the goods on sale, "rationed them out to the boys" and received payment (R38-40). , On Thursday nights or Friday mornings he would sell out all the remaining supplies bn hand, fill out Forms No. 389 (sales slips) which he had signed by either Captain Molyneux or Lieutenant Krieger, whichever ona was in charge of post exchange supplies at the tima, place 4 copies of the sales slips and the, money in an envelope addressed to the finance officer at Widewing which he placed in his basket for delivery by courier (R38-40). No receipts were obtained from the courier for the envelope and its contents (R41). The money consisted mostly of paper currency and a very small amount in silver (R44). About 2 days later there would be returned to him from Widewing one receipted copy of the sales slip signed by the

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(12)

CONFIDENTIAL

finance officer, and accused’s copies of the tally-outs. He kept these papers and the copies of his requisitions in a ledger book in his wall- ' locker, together with "*** my copies showing who I sold supplies to" (R38-41), During November and December (1942) he forwarded about seven such cash payments in this maimer (R43)* He, paid and received receipts for all bills which he owed for post exchange goods (R4l). '

About 1 January 1943, accused was relieved from supply duty and put.in charge of the squadron as acting first sergeant, -He turned over to his successor, Sergeant Anderson, all supplies on hand, "filled up my last sales slips, turned them in and cleared up all supplies" (R39). About 1 February (1943) a Sergeant Belcher became acting first sergeant and asked for his ledger book to use for another purpose. Accused gave him the book after he removed his receipts, papers and the first few sheets of the book in which he had kept his records (R4l)-» He destroyed his receipts during the latter part of May (1943) (R38,42). Accused never reported an operating J.OSS, He was never asked by Captain Molyneux or Lieutenant Krieger how much money was being forwarded (R40), nor were any inquiries made by an officer, as to whether he maintained any records (R44) •	1

Lieutenant James E. Brown, Jr.., Air Corps, 86th Air Transport Squadron, at the request of Captain Molyneux, checked the tally-outs "against the payments of finance at Widowing". There were no books, to check at the post but he. did have at the post duplicate copies of the -requisitions and tally-outs and "duplicate copies of the payments into the finance office of Widewing"• He checked receipts covering a period beginning in. October (1942) until June (1943) and established a shortage (R45). •

. Sergeant John W. Belcher, Technical Sergeant, 86th Air Transport Squadron, confirmed accused's testimony that he had given his ledger book, to Belcher after removing two or three pages (R46).

Sergeant. Gove, recalled as a witness for the defense testified that between 15 October and 31 December 1942, mail was taken to Widewing from the post by a courier who would collect it, but that no record of any nature was kept of the outgoing mail (R47).

«

■ - •

. Sergeant Walter H. Holden, 86th Air Transport Squadron, who acted as one of the couriers to Widewing during October, November and December 1942 testified that he never picked up in the supply- room an envelope containing loose silver money and that he would have known if an envelope did contain money of this nature (R49).

Captain George A. Seamens, Civil Disbursing Finance Officer, APO 887 (London) testified that an examination of the records of his office for the months of November and December 1942 and January 1943 showed that no payments for the post exchange goods in question had been received in



— 6 •*

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(13)

his office, and that his office would have no records of any payments made to the finance office at Widewing (R50).

Sergeant McCall, recalled as a witness for the d efense testified that over the long period of time during which he had known accused he had never seen him have "any more than what a sergeant would receive for pay"* Asked if he had known accused to spend or "flash" a great deal of money, he replied that he "used'to go on some 'pretty big benders'" (R5l).

Mrs. Eileen Elkins, accused's wife met him in November 1942 and they were married in June 1943* Neither she nor accused ever had any unusually large sums of money and they just managed to pay their way. During the month previous to trial (August 1943) his pay was stopped and she was destitute. She had borrowed the rent and repaid it from her own wages. She had returned to "lodgings" and could not even pay her bill for the present week (R52).

5.	Sergeants George B. Baker, Russell W. Politz, and Royce A. Bradrick, all of the 86th Air Transport Squadron, called as witnesses in rebuttal by the prosecution, acted as couriers during October, November and December 1942. Baker and Politz testified that they would have known if an envelope given them for delivery had contained metal currency, but that they could not recall the delivery of such an envelope to Widewing (R53-54,56). Sergeant Bradrick could not recall whether or not he delivered any mail addressed to the finance officer at Widewing (R57).

6.	At the close of the case for the prosecution the defense moved for a finding of not guilty on the grounds of insufficient evidence (R35)• The motion was "overruled" (R37). The denial of the motion, was clearly justified as the prosecution had then presented sufficient evidence to establish a prima facie case and to warrant the court's action in considering such evidence when making its ultimate findings.

Paragraph 2 of the review of the Staff Judge Advocate, VIII Air Force Service Command, contains a discussion concerning irregularities contained in the record of trial and the evidence. Further comment thereon is unnecessary, as is a detailed comment upon certain rulings of the law member which, although erroneous, did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused.

7.	It is alleged in the Specification that accused, at. AAF 575, APO 635, from about 15 October i942 to about 18 January 1943 feloniously embezzled "A304. 13. 8. ($1229.40) the same having been received by him in his capacity as the non-commissioned officer in charge of said Post Exchange". The Specification varies from the form set forth in the Manual for Courts<-Martial, 1928 (Form No. 95, Appendix 4, p.250) in that it does not contain any allegations either as to the ownership of the money involved, or the name of the person who entrusted the money to accused.

- 7 -

confidential

CONFIDENTIAL

(15)

'that the error complained of has injuriously affected the substantial rights of an accused" (Underscoring supplied),

"No finding or sentence need be- disapproved solely because a specification is defective if the facts alleged therein and reaspnablv implied therefrom constitute an offense, unless it appears from the record that the accused was in fact misled by such defect, or that, his substantial rights were in fact otherwise injuriously affected thereby, ***."

(MCM., 1928, par,87i, p.74) (Underscoring supplied).

The counterpart of Article of War 37 contained in the United States Criminal Code is as follows;

"No indictment found and presented by a grand jury in any district or other court of the’

United States shall be deemed insufficient, nor shall the trial, judgment or other proceeding thereon be affected by reason of any defect or imperfection in matter of form only, which shall not tend to the prejudice of the defendant, R.S. sec.1025." (18 USCA, sec.556, p.34).

"An indictment'or information is sufficient under this section,’ if the offense be described with sufficient’ clearness to’ show a violation of law, to enable accused to know the nature and cause of the accusation,

' and to plead a judgment, if one be rendered, in bar of further prosecution for the same offense". (18 USCA, Note 27, p.43).

"An indictment which will enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended is sufficient". (Ibid),

"Mistakes in expressing the substance of a crime, if the meaning can be understood, will

.be looked upon as formal defects". (18 USCA,

Note 28, p,A4) (Underscoring supplied).

The Specification in the case under consideration definitely sets forth the place where the offense was committed, the dates concerned, and the amount involved. It is further alleged that accused feloniously

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(16)

CONFIDENTIAL

embezzled by fraudulently converting to his own use the amount described which was received by him as the non-commissioned officer in charge of the Post Exchange. Thus, the capacity in which accused received the money stated to have been embezzled was also alleged. The allegations contained in the Specification were sufficiently detailed in ‘nature as to enable accused adequately to prepare his defense and to obviate ‘any risk of double jeopardy. The "facts alleged therein and reasonably implied therefrom" constituted an offense despite the absence of an allegation as to ownership and a more detailed description 'of the manner in which the money was entrusted to him. It cannot reasonably be claimed that accused was misled by any defects contained in the specification. The defense made no objection with relation to the sufficiency of the allegations. In fact, the sole contention by the accused was in substance that ‘he had forwarded all payments received for post exchange supplies to the finance officer at Widewing, but that he had destroyed the receipts showing that such payments had been received. In view of the foregoing the provisions of Article of War 37 are clearly applicable. The allegations of the Specification are legally sufficient. (Moore v. United States, 160 U.S. 268, AO L. Ed., 422; Grin v. Shine, 187 U.S. 181, 47 L. Ed., 130).

8.	Accused testified that he was in charge of the post exchange during the period involved, ‘that he’ purchased and sold supplies, and received money therefor. He further testified that lie had paid for all supplies purchased, had sent about seven payments to the finance officer at"Widewing and had received from that officer receipts for all payments made. He destroyed the receipts about four or five months after he had been relieved as noncommissioned officer in charge of the post exchange. The seven tally-outs, the total amount of which represented the sum alleged to have been embezzled were found on file in the finance office, SOS at Cheltenham. No payments had been received at the finance offices at Widewing, London or Cheltenham. The finance office, SOS at Cheltenham would normally have records of payments made to finance offices under its jurisdiction as such office^ should forward copies of their collection vouchers. Whether payments had actually ^ been made was a question of fact for determination by the court and the Board of Review will nqt disturb that^finding, The evidence was legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of the offense alleged.

(CM 210942, Funderburke).

9.	Attached to the record of trial is an "Appeal from Decision of.

Trial by General Court-Martial" signed by defense counsel and addressed to the Commanding General, VIII Air Force Service Command, APO #633, U.S.Army.

10.	The charge sheet shows that accused enlisted at Augusta, Maine,

2 January 1941 for three years.

11.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review i3 of the opinion tl^at the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty

- 10 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(17)

and the sentence. The court was legally constituted and no errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed at the trial-.

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the

European Theater of Operations APO 871

#(19)

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 866

UNITED STATES )

v.	)

Private JOHN J. O'CONNELL '	)

(32297460) and Private JAMES	)

(NMI) HAZA (13060930), both	1

of 46th Depot Supply Squadron,	)

4.6th Air Depot Group.	)

- 8 MOV \943

T

VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 505, 28 September 1943* Sentencei Each - Confinement at hard labor for six months and forfeiture of 124.00 per month for like period. The 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U. S. Army.

OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW RHER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence as to Private John J. O'Connell, and legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence as to Private James Baza, The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.

2.	Accused were tried upon the following charges and specifications:

CHARGE It Violation of the 93rd Article of War,

Specification! In that Private John J. O'Connell,

46th Depot Supply Squadron, 46th Air Depot Group, did, in conjunction with Private (then Corporal)

James (NMI) Haza, 46th Depot Supply Squadron,

46th Air Depot Group, at AAF Station 505, APO 635, on or about 7 August, 1943, with intent to do them bodily harm commit, an assault upon '

Sergeant Edward (NMI) Hynz, Sergeant. John W,

Mbssman, Sergeant Wilbert B. Qrtman, Corporal Lawrence W. North, Corporal Jack W. Walters,

Private First Class Galen R. Coopem and Private Aurelius E. Miner by Shooting at them with * dangerous weapons, to-wit: service rifles.

- 1 -

COSnOEfiTIA!
MDENHAL

(20)

CHARGE II* V Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specification It In that Private John J. O'Connell,

46th Depot Supply Squadron, 46th Air Depot Group, did, in conjunction with private/ (then Corporal)

James (NUI) Haza, 46th Depot Supply Squadron,

46th Air Depot Group, at AAF Station 505, APQ 635, on or about* 7 August 1943, willfully, unlaw-1 fully,/wrongfully and withqut proper authority, . fire numerous shots from servioe riflesin , barracks occuped by other military personnel..

Specification 2i In that Private John J. O'Connell, v 46th Depot Supply Squadron, 46th Air Depot Group, did, in conjunction with Private (then Corporal)

• James (HHI) Haza, 46th Depot Supply Squadron,

46th Air Depot Group, at AAF Station 505, APO ,	.	635, on or about 7 August, 1943, willfully,

wrongfully and unlawfully destroy a portion of .... a building furnished for and used by the United States, value about 440*00*	'

Each accused pleaded guilty to Specification 1, Charge II, and not guilty to all other oharges and specifications. Evidence of one previous conviction of accused Haza for absence without leave, was introduced. Each accused was found guilty of the Specification, Charge I except the words "with Intent to do them bodily harm", not guilty of Charge I but guilty of violation of the 96th Article of Tar, not guilty of Specification 2,

Charge II and guilty of Specification 1, Charge II and of Charge II. Each was sentenced to be confined-at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for a period of six months, and to forfeit 424*00 per month for a like period. The reviewing, authority approved the sentences, ordered their execution and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, United States Amy as the plac? of confinement for each.	.

The result of the trial was promulgated in General Court-Martial Order To. 36, Headquarters, VIII Air Foroe Service Command, AAF-586, APO 633, dated 14 October 1943.

3.	The three specifications of the two charges against the accused herein are each similarly phrased in the language of the specification involved in CM ETO 882, Blond! and White, recently decided by the Board of Review. In the above cited case the Board found that White, charged "in conjunction with" Biondl, had not been actually charged with committing any offense and that the findings and sentence as to White were therefore not legally sufficient. James (NMI) Haza was likewise before the court upon charges and specifications which failed to allege that he had committed any crime and upon the authority quoted above, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial herein is legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence as to him.
CONFIDENTIAL

(21)

4.	The findings and sentence of the court as to accused James J. O'Connell were found legally sufficient when examined In the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and are therefore not before the Board of Review for consideration.

5.	The accused James (NUl) Haia is 20 years 8 months of age. He enlisted 24 April 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months* He had no prior service.

6.	The court was legally constituted but as to accused James Hasa was without jurisdiction of either the person or the offense.

Judge Advocate

Judge Advocate

fudge Advocate

3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

1st lad.

ID, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. *8 NOV 1943 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S.Army.

1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 50£ as amended by the act of 20 August 1937 (50 Stat. 724; 10 U.S.C., 1522) and as further amended by Public Law 693, 77th Congress, 1 August 1942. is the record of trial in the case of Private JOHN J. O'CONNELL (32297460; and Private JAMES (NMl) HAZA (13060930), both of 46th Depot Supply Squadron,

46th Air Depot Group.

The opinion of the Board of Review in the instant case is based upon its approved holding in CM ETO 882, Blondl and White. A copy of said holding is inclosed for your information.

2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally Insufficient to support the findings and sentence as to accused Haza. He was before the court upon charges and specifications which failed to allege that he had committed any offense and in legal effect he was not tried or placed in jeopardy. I recommend that the findings and sentence herein as to Private James (NMl) Haza be vacated and that all rights, privileges and property of which he may have been deprived by reason of such findings and sentence so vacated, be restored.

•	...	v

3* The evidence is convincing that Haza is equally guilty with O'Connell, in fact he pleaded guilty to one specification. , No legal reason, in my opinion, exists against .properly charging and trying him for the offenses committed, which might well be before a special court-martial since dishonorable discharge was not adjudged in the present trial.

4« Inclosed is a form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also draft GCMO for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the record of trial with required copies of GCMO-____

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

Record^olf^rial Form of Action Draft GCMO

Holding of Board of Review -

CM ETO 882, Blond! and White.________

(Findings of guilty and sentence vacated as to Private Haza, GCMO 24, ETO, 17 Nov 1943)

4 Inclsi Incl.l. . Incl.2. Incl.3. Incl.4.

C. McNEIL,
#(23)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the

European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD CP REVIEW EEO 873

UNITED STATES )

v.	)

First Lieutenant LEO 0. BLOOM j (0-523908), Dental Corps,	)

Attached to 364th Engineer	)

Regiment, (GS). ’	)

2 7 0Cri943

EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES ' OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER CP OPERATIONS,

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Kettering, Northamptonshire, Bigland 17 September 1943, Sentence! To be dismissed the service, *

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1,	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its ’ holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in dharge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations .

2,	Accused was 'tried upon the following charges and specificationsI

«

CHARGE 11 Violation of the 95th Article of War,

(Finding of not guilty) • '

Specification It (Finding of not guilty).

Specification 2t (Finding of not guilty).

CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specification 1. In that 1st. Lieutenant Leo 0,

Bloom, Medical Detachment, 364th Engineer Regiment, was, at Proteus Camp, Ollertcn, Nottinghamshire, England, on or about 29th August 1943} drunk and disorderly.

Specification 2. In that 1st. Lieutenant Leo 0."

Bloom, Medical Detachment, 364th Engineer Regiment, was, at Proteus Camp, Ollertan, Notting- ' hamshire, England, an or about 30th August 1943* drunk and disorderly.

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(2A)	CONFJDhNTIAL

CHARGE III* Violation of the 6lst. Article of War*

Specification In that 1st. Lieutenant Leo. 0.

Bloom, Medical Detachment, 364th Engineer Regiment, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his station at the 30th General Hospital,

Mansfield,' Nottinghamshire,' England, from about 1225 hours, 30th August, 1943 to'about 1535 hours 30th August,- 1943*	.	*

He pleaded not guilty to all charges and to the specifications thereunder.

He was found not guilty of Charge I and of its specifications, guilty of Specification 1, Charge II except the words "and disorderly", of the excepted words not guilty, guilty of Specification 2, Charge II and of Charge II, and guilty of Charge III and of the Speclficatibn thereunder.

No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer,-Eastern Base Section, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, ~ European'Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence .and pursuant to Article of War 50withheld the order-directing the execution thereof.

3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows that about 8t30 p*m. 29 August (1943) Second Lieutenant Lyle Smith and First Lieutenant Meyer Rashbaum, both of the 364th Engineer Regiment together with a Lieutenant Hoffman went to the officers* day-room at Proteus Car?), Qllerton, Nottinghamshire, England (R7-8,11-12).	Lieutenant Rashbaum had a quart of rum (R8,12). Accused

was present with other officers, reading. When the party sat down near the bar ***** the others came over" (R12). Lieutenant Smith mixed drinks of rum and "Pepsicola" and the quart of JJLquor was consumed in about two hours (R8,12), each officer having four drinks (R8,10,12). Accused had his prorated share (R9). During this period he remained seated and had little to say. . He was not observed to have any drinks other than those from* the bottle (R8,10,12-13).	When the party began, he appeared sober and did not

smell of liquor (Rll,13). Lieutenant Rashbaum testified that he left the day-room at 10*^0 p.m., that accused then appeared to be normal, that he had not been disorderly and that "There was never any suspicion in my mind that he was drinking too much" (R12-13).

At 10i30 p.m. Lieutenant Smith extinguished the lights, went to the outer door with accused and then proceeded to his barracks (R8). Upon seeing a light in the latrine he returned to the day-room where he found accused leaning against the wall drooling at the mouth, with his head hunched forward and hanging down, and his arms loose. "Some, of the substance was on his trousers". Lieutenant Smith attempted to assist him to his quarters (R9) but he was unable to walk and had to be partly carried (R10), so he left to get Lieutenant Hoffman and when they returned accused was "sliding against the wall". The two officers took him to his quarters,

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(25)

removed his shoes and put him to bed* He was muttering and Lieutenant Smith could not mate any "sense out of what he was Baying" (R9). He offered no violence and was not disorderly (Rll). Lieutenant Smith testified that in his opinion accused was sick* . "I can't imagine that he was drunk, because no-one else was" (R9,ll).

. Major John E. Eller son, attached 364-th Engineer Regiment, was billeted in a Nissen hut. (No* 95) id the regimental area. Asked if he had seen accused on the night of 29 August, he testified "I han't remember the. exact night other than by my statement. If that was the 29th it is correct" (R19-20). About IOiOO p»m., after Major Eilerson had retired Lieutenants Hoffman and Smith entered. One officer carried accused by the "top end" and the other carried him by his legs* He appeared, to be grossly, drunk and was placed in bed. He spoke "rather incoherently", lay in bed "mumbling away." and "rolled and wriggled around". After observing him for about, an hour, Major Eilerson fell asleep (R20,22-23). During the night he heard a commotion as though someone urinated against the jrall. and saw & lot of human excretion on the floor near his bed (R20). About midnight he awakened to hear other officers advise accused to go to bed as he was walking about (R22).

• * *

About 11*30 p*m«, 29 August Captain Harold. W. Grundy, attached 364-th Engineer Regiment, returned to hut No. 95 where he was billeted and retired. Accused was in bed and "seemed normally asleep" (R13-14->19). Between 4-4»30 a.m., 30 August Captain Grundy was awakened by accused who bumped against his bed (R14-,l6). "He was rubbing his stomach as if in pain and Buffering from an accumulation of gas" (R16). He .expelled gas (R15,13), went to the rear door of the hut which was'permanently locked (R14,16) and asted "How do you get out of here?" (R15,17). He then went to the opposite end of the. room where a* Captain Miner awakened and asked" who was there. .Accused said "Give me a hand". When the captain told him to go to bed, he "apparently" stumbled and fell on the floor where he remained for a short time and then went to bed (R15»18-19). When Captain_ Grundy arose at 6*00 a.m. the following morning (30 August), he observed human excreta on the floor at approximately the same, location where accused had been previously rubbing his stomach and had expelled the gas (R15-16). The excreta was spread over an area two or three feet square (R19).

Accused also arose at 6*00 a.m. and appeared to Captain Grundy to be slightly intoxicated although he could not say whether he was drunk. His speech was thick when he asked the captain for a cigarette. He walked normally (R15-16), Some of his clothing was spread on the floor (R18),

At 7*00 a.m. (.30 August) Major Eilerson saw accused standing by his bed, mumbling. He appeared to be in a dazed condition and it was the major's opipion that he was drunk at that time (R2l). His clothing was scattered throughout an area of about 20 feet (R20).

» •

At 6*00 a.m. (30 August) Major James MajarakLs, regimental surgeon and accused's superior officer noticed that he was not present at

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

calisthenics. He later found him in his hut (R24). Accused said that he had missed calisthenics because he was sick. His speech was incoherent and his walk and gait ware unsteady (1125,33) • As he began to put on some clothes which were, lying about his locker, he removed a bottle from the locker and took a drink. Major Kajarakia then took him to the 30th General Hospital for further diagnosis (R25), where they arrived at about 8*00 a.ra. (R34) • On the way accused was more exuberant and loquacious than t ' usual, but spoke "very friendly *** and very intelligently". (R25,32).

Major Majarakis was unable to state definitely whether he was or wan. not sober (R33).	...

On 30 August Major Henry B, Kirkland, Medical Corps was in charge, of the officers' medical ward, 30th General Hospital. There, in the late morning he saw accused who had just been admitted and who stated that he had been drinking the night before (R27-28,35). He. was in. a very unreasonable frame of mind and resentful at having been brought to the hospital against hi3 will.. He refused to remove £da clpthes and to retire and "showed no disposition to act normally". He talked coherently but "did not show the continuity of. thought and answer that one would expect" (R28-29,35). . Major Kirkland ordered him to remain in the ward and stated that if he did not he would be considered as absent without, leave. Accused appeared to understand the order, and inquired as to the consequences should he break the restriction. Shortly after 12*30, the major was called and proceeded to check accused's whereabouts. He was not in the ward .(K28~29, 34). He next saw him about 3*30 p.m. on the same day when he wa3 brought to the hospital by a captain of the military police. . He was dazed, and his breath smelled very definitely of alcohol. Hie was "less oriented", his speech was slurred and rambling and his gait was unsteady. When instructed to go to bed, he did so and went- to sleep almost immediately (R28-29).

About 6*00 p.m., 30 August Captain Douglas McG. Kelly, Medical . Corps, chief of the neuro-psychiatric section, 30th General .Hospital saw accused. He was acutely intoxicated and was in bed in a stuporous st.ate.

His breath smelled of alcohol and he had "a gross tr.emor" (R26-27).

4.	For the defense, accused testified that he was in his hut at 5*30 p.m. 29 August and that he had two drinks before dinner. "After mess" he went to the day-room and Lieutenants Hoffman, Smith and Rashbaum came in, each with a quart of rum. "J had quite a few drinks, I .don't know how many. From then on I don't remember' anything except when I was in hospital". He did have flashes of memory "in between". He did not recall being taken home on the night of 29 August, or the trip with Major Majarakis to the hospital. He remembered talking with Major Kirkland but could not recall the conversation, n6r did he remeiriber "being warped or ptit under arrest that day ***". He recalled his admission to the hospital as a .patient and "faintly" remembered leaving the .hospital, "walking in Mansfield and deciding to get a bus, and then the Provost Marshall came." He did not

-4-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(27)

remember having anything to drink in Mansfield. He did not have money to buy any drinks because he counted his money in the hospital and had just a few pence. He removed his shorts and threw them away because they "were messed" (R30-32).	,	,

•	*	•	i

5.	; Recalled as a witness by the court, Captain Kelly testified that accused remained under his observation for some days. The captain's opinion concerning his case was "Alcoholism acute, severealcoholism chronic, moderately severe; constitutional psychopathic state, inadequate personality" (R35). The court then asked "What is the prognosis?" After the court overruled an objection by the prosecution on behalf of accused. Captain Kelly testified "The prognosis is poor. Treatment is required for a considerable length of time in the problem of chronic alcoholism, and can never be remedied at this stage". He replied in the affirmative to the court's question as to whether in his opinion the actions of accused might be the result of his type of constitutional inadequacy (R36).

6.	The reviews of the staff judge advocate, Eastern Base Section,

SOS, ETOHSA, and the assistant theater judge advocate, ETODSA contain several comments regarding irregularities appearing in the record of trial, Further comment thereon is unnecessary.

‘ '■	'	• ‘	.	'	• I	-	-	'	.

7. ’ Before any evidence had been presented the defense moved "that a1 verdict be directed by ‘the court of not guilty" of Charge I and cf the specifications thereunder on the ground that "the specifications *** are insufficient, even if proven, to support a violation of the 95th Article of War". The court denied the motion (R7). The specifications were in proper form. As the prosecution had not then been afforded the opportunity to present any evidence whatsoever pertaining to the offenses alleged, the motion by the defense was obviously premature.

8.	At the conclusion of the prosecution's case the defense moved that the- court "direct a* verdict of not guilty" of Charge I and of the specifications thereunder, and of the Specification of Charge III an the ground that the evidenbe presented was not legally sufficient to support a finding of guilty. The court denied the motions (R29-30). Sufficient and substantial* evidence as to accused's guilt' of the offenses alleged had then been presentfed'by the prosecution to warrant the court's action in denying the motions and in considering such evidence when reaching its* ultimate findings.

*

9.	With reference to Specification 1 of Charge II (drunkenness at Proteus Camp on or about 29 August 19A3)» the evidence, shows- that after drinking run and "Pepsicola" accused was found in the officers' latrine leaning against the wall drooling at the mouth, with his head hanging down and his arms loose. It was necessary for two officers to carry him bodily to his quarters and to put him to bed. He spoke incoherently, lay in bed "mumbling away" and "rolled and wriggled around" • One could not make any "sense out of what he was saying". • In Major Ellerson's opinion he was

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
OONFIRENTIAl.

grossly drunk. There was however, no evidence that accused was disorderly.

With respect to Specification 2 of Charge II (being drunk and disorderly at Proteus Camp 30 August 194-3), in the early morning hours of the date alleged accused was wandering around in his billet asking "How do you get out of here?" He bumped into Captain Grundy's cot, expelled gas and awakened three officers who were sleeping in the hut. There was substantial evidence that he defecated on the floor of the billet. He admitted throwing away his shorts because they were "messed". He asked an officer to give him a hand and then stumbled and fell on the floor. Between 6-7:00 a.m. the same morning some of his clothing was found spread over the floor. He was in a dazed condition, his speech was thick and incoherent and his walk and gait were unsteady. In the opinion of Major Eilerson he was drunk. He appeared slightly intoxicated to Captain Grundy. Before leaving for the hospital he took a drink from a bottle which was in his locker.

The evidence as to the drunkenness on 29-30 August was corroborated by accused himself who testified that after having "quite a few drinks" in the day-room, aside from flashes of memory "in between" he remembered nothing except when he was in the hospital.

The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty with respect to Charge II and its specifications.

10.	During the late morning of 30 August accused was ordered by the officer in charge to remain in the officers' medical ward of the 30th General Hospital, and told that if he did not he would be considered as absent without leave. The fact that he understood the order was evidenced by his inquiry as to the consequences of breaking the restriction. Accused was not in the ward shortly after 12:30 p.m. He was next seen by the officer in charge about 300 p.m. when he was brought to the hospital by the military police. He "faintly" remembered leaving the hospital and going to Mansfield. The evidence is legally sufficient to establish the finding that accused was guilty of absence without leave as alleged (Charge III and Specification thereunder).

i

11.	The accused is 4-5 years of age, and served as a private from 10 October 1942 to 8 June 1943 on which date he was commissioned. He served in the "first world war" for two and a half months.

12.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. Ho errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review

- 6 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(29)

is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Dismissal is authorized upon conviction of violation of Articles of War 61 and 96.

i

- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 27 OCT 1943 TO* Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S, Army.

,1. In the case of First Lieutenant LEO 0. BLOOM (0-523908), Dental Corps, attached to 364th Engineer Regiment ((E) attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5o£, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence,

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 873. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orderi (ETO 873).



Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 23, ETO, 1 Nov 1943)
#(31)

CONFIDENTIAL

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the	•'

European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 875

WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES CF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER CP OPERATIONS. •

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, 27 September 1943. Sentence* Dishonorable* discharge,^ total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. The Federal Reformatory, ^Chillicothe, Ohio. >

HOLDING by the BOARD CF REVIEW RITER, VAN BEKSCBOTEN _and SARGENT, Judge Advocates '

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges add specifications*

CHARGE I* Violation of the 58th Article of War.

Specification* In that Private Russell (KMC)

/	Fazio,	Company	A.,	1st	Provisional Battalion,

10th Replacement Depot, Whittington ^Barracks,'

Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire,

England, on or about 9 August 1943, desert the service of the United States and did remain	„

absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Kennlngton Lane, London, Middlesex, England, on or about 24 August 1943.

UNITED

STATES )

Private RUSSELL (Nitf) FAZIO (13012666), Company "A", 1st Provisional Battalion,, 10th Replacement Depot.

' i

28 OCT 1943* .

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

CHARGE II: Violation of the 61st Article of War.

Specification:	In	that	Private Russell (NMI)

Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion,

10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, (then of: ^ Replacement Company rtAn - Separate - ) did, without proper leave absent himself from his Organization at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, from an or' about 2330 hours 5 July 19A3, until he surrendered himself on or about 1255 hours 30 July 1943, at Number 1 Cumberland Place^ London, Middlesex, England.

CHARGE III: Violation of the 69th Article of War.

Specification:	In	that	Private Russell (NMI) ■

Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion,

10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, having been duly placed in confinement in United States Post Guardhouse, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 7 August 1943, did, at.United States.Post Guardhouse, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 9 August 1943, escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.

CHARGE IV: Violation of the 94th Article of War.

Specification:	In	that	Private Russell (NMI)

Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at

■ Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 9 August 1943, feloniously ’ take, steal and carry away one olive drab blouse, of .the value of less than twenty ($20,00) dollars, the property of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof.

CHAR® V:	Violation	of	the 93rd Article of War.

Specification 1:	In	that	Private Russell (NMI)

Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at 10 Pitney Street, Vauxhall, Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about 18 August 1943, unlawfully enter the office of J. W, GADSDE2J AND COMPANY, with intent to commit a criminal offense, to wit, Larceny therein.

-• 2 ■■

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(33)

Specification 2:	In that Private Russell (NMI)

Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion,

10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,

Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at 10 . Pitney Street,.Vauxhall, Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about 18 August 1943, feloniously take, Steal, and carry away, 10 pounds, 9 shillings, and 8 pence sterling, lawful money of the United Kingdom of the exchange value of about $44.32, four small tea . plates, one white tea plate, two tea cups and saucers, five,teaspoons, one tea pot, one tea . caddy with l/4 pound of tea, one table cloth, one towel, one glass towel, one lady’s coat, one biscuit box containing biscuits, one pan of beans,.one can of sliced peaches, quantity of golden syrup, bread and sugar, one large bread knife, two knifes, one tire pressure gauge, one 3-pound packet candles, about ten Health Insurance stamps, six Unemployment Insurance stamps, postage stamps, gent13 mackintosh and one small steel hammer all of the value of about $64.52, the property of

J.	W. Gadsden and Company, 10 Pitney Street,

Vauxhall, Birmingham, Warwickshire, England.

Specification 3* In that Private Russell (NMI)

Fazio, Company A., 1st Provisional Battalion,

10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,

Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire,

England, on or about 9 August 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry ajvay one Garrison Cap and one pair of oxford tan. sho.es,, of a value of less than twenty ($2p,00) dollars, the property of First Sergeant Gustave V. Anderson,

, Company A., 3rd Provisional Battalion, 10th • Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England-.

He pleaded not guilty to the specification and charge I and to specifications 2 and 3 of charge V, and guilty to the specification and charge II, to the specification and charge III, to the specification and charge IV and to specification 1 of charge V and to charge V. He was found guilty of all charges and specifications. Evidence of four previous, convictions was introduced:	two	by	special court for larceny of L14 from another

soldier and of a 45 caliber pistol, one by special court for escape and one by summary court for failure to obey a lawful command. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor for ten years at such place as the reviewing authority may direct. The reviewing authority ap^rovqd. the findings, except as to Specification 2, Charge V, of which he

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CUiiriuENTIM.

approved only so much of the finding as involves a finding of guilty of larceny of property of a value not in excess of fifty but more than twenty dollars. He approved the .sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant- to Article of War. 50|-.

3.(a) The evidence presented by the prosecution in support of the charge of desertion against the-accused, (Charge I and its Specification) was substantially as follows:

An extract copy of the morning report of Company "A", 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, was received in evidence as Pros.Ex.5, with the, consent of defense, and shows: n10 August 1943 - Pvt. Fazio, Russ.ell,

13012666 from conft. ,to Escaped AWGL 1800 hours as of 9 Aug. (L.C).

26 August 1943 - Pvt. Fazio, Russell,

13012666 A'VOL to Abs. Conft. London 0900 Hrs. as of 24 Aug." (R7).

Private Eugene C, Seiflein, Company "C", 4th Replacement Battalion, Whittington Barraqks, Lichfield, testified that he met accused in Birmingham on 22 August, at the New Street Station, that accused "told me he had a boat boarded for Philadelphia" and requested a loan of two pounds which witness let accused have. Accused "*** handed over his dog-tags to me and told me to destroy them in case he got picked up for investigation" (R7). Accused was in civilian clothes (R8,10).

Lance Corporal A. Scruton, D-7751, Number 6 Company, Canadian Provost Corps, London, while checking Canadian soldiers at Waterloo station in London on 24 August "had reason to suspect that accused might be a member of the armed forces. In our line of duty, we also checked him for his' identity". Accused was in civilian clothes and. had a British civilian identity card in the name of Patrick McGrath. The Canadian authorities turned accused over to the civilian police to check his identity card (RIO). Scruton identified accused as the hams man.he apprehended in London as Patrick McGrath, This testimony was corroborated by Lance-Corporal H. R. Bruneau who was with Scruton at the time accused was taken into custody (Rll),

The accused, his counsel and the trial Judge advocate stipulated (Rll) that if Detective Inspector Joseph Keeling were present as a witness, he would testify that he saw accused in civilian clothes, about 11:00 a.m. on Tuesday, 24 August 1943, at Kennington Police Station where he had been brought for questioning as a suspected deserter. At that time accused claimed he was Irish, that his name was Patrick McGrath,-that he was working at Wolseley Motor Works, .Birmingham and that he was on 14 days holiday. When accused heard arrangements being made to check up with the Birmingham police, he said to Inspector Keeling, "I guess it’s no use giving you a lot of trouble. I am an American and am a deserter from the American Army,

cc

4 -

?m\ki
CONFIDENTIAL

(35)

I	was awaiting a Court-Martial and broke out of the guardhouse at Lichfield about 2nd August. I got the identity card from a drunken Irishman in Birmingham **■**. My name is Russell Fazio, and my Army number is 13012666" (Rll-12).	Inspector Keeling would have testified further	that

accused was delivered to the American Army authorities, and that in consequence of a telephone message, Inspector Keeling examined on 25 August 19-43, the lavatory pan in the Kennington Police Station detention room where accused had been lodged when first brought to the station, and found a number of pieces of paper which were undoubtedly the remains of petrol .coupons, a number of which coupons he was able to almost complete.1

The signed statement of accused dated 25.August 1943, Pros^bc.6, was admitted in evidence upon stipulation of the trial judge advocate, accused and defense counsel that it had been obtained after'accused had been warned of his rights and that he was free from threats and promises when he’gave‘same (R12). It contains recitals indicative of the intention of accused to remain away from the service permanently. "

In> the opinion of the Board of Review there is substantial evidence to support the court's findings of guilty of desertion under Charge I and its Specification (CM ETO 656, Taylor! CM ETO 740, lane; CM ETO 800, Ungardj CM ETO 823, Poteet).

(b)	With reference to charge II and'its specification, (absence without leave from 5 July 1943 to 30 July 1943 terminated by surrender), accused at his own request was sworn as a witness and in the course of his testimony admitted that in July.he was'absent without leave for 25 days.

He also said* "The reason for me going over the.hill, AW0L, is that I

'wanted*to **** get back to the States *#**" (R19). - There is no doubt of acchsed's guilt.	’	-	>

(c)	Accused made a sworn statement on 10 September 1943 (Pros.Ex.7).

It was accepted in evidence with the consent of defense (R13). In it he< detailed his escape from confinement, (Charge III and Specification) and his larceny of government property, viz* a blouse (Charge 17 and Specification) (R25). Accused's statement supported his plea of guilty tb the offenses charged and was of informatory assistance to the court*

I	.	'	“

(d)	In his sworn statement of 25 August 1943 (Pros.Ex.6) accused related in detail the pre-arranged entering of the office of J. W. Gadsden and Company of Birmingham, England, in company with two accomplices with intent to commit a criminal offense (Charge V, Specification 1). His testimony in court (R21-22) elaborates and confirms his former statement. All of the elements of the crime of house-breaking were present (M3M.,

1928, par.149^, p.169). His plea of guilty was not ill-advised and the finding of guilty was in all respects proper.	i	v

(e)	Charge V, Specification 2‘, charges the theft by accused of specified articles of personal property, British money, British Health stamps, British Unemployment stamps and British postage stamps of the

- 5 «

CONFIDENTIAL
(36)	CONFIDENTIAL

value of $64.52, the property of J. W. Gadsden and Company Ltd,, Birmingham, In his sworn testimony in court accused denied the taking of the tea-pots, /the plates, tea, beans, biscuits and the lady's coat "and stuff concerned", but he admitted he had eaten some of the biscuits and canned beans (R22,24).	_	“

Miss Winifred Pansy Marguerite Gadsden, a prosecution witness, testified that she was an employee on 18 August 1943 of J. W, Gadsden Company Limited, Vauxhall," Birmingham, and that articles of personal property described in the specification, excepting the b'rea’d and sugar had been left in the company's office on 18 August 1943 - some inside the safe and some about the office and that they were missing when she re'tumed to the office on the 19 August 1943 (R14-15). She declared that 110.19. 8d in money had been taken and in addition certain petrol coupons.

The fact that the money and personal property (except the lady's coat) was in the office of Gadsden Company whep taken, is evidence 'upon which the inference that the company owned the same may be based (2 Wharton's Criminal Law, sec.1174, p.1494; Underhill's Criminal Evidence, sec. 508, "p.1028),	There was adequate evidence of the de facto existence of

the corporation (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, sec.508, p«103l). The exchange value of the money was $42.31. The evidence as to the value of the stolen articles of personal property is unsatisfactory. Miss Gadsden's testimony while competent and admissible (20 Am.Jur.,Evidence, sec.894, p.752, note 6) obviously was but a guess. Under the circumstances the approving authority was correct in approving only so much of the finding of guilty of larceny of property of a value not in excess of fifty dollars but more than twenty dollars. This is supported by the value of the money alone. In the opinion of the Board of Review the prosecution fully sustained the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt all of the elements of the commission of the crime of larceny by accused, and the record is legally sufficient to support the approved finding (MCM., 1928, par. U8g, P.171).	•	„

-J

. (f) In his statement of 10 September 1942 (Pros.Ex.7), accused related that when he escaped from the guardhouse at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, he entered the squad room of one of the barracks and picked'up pants and a shirt and then he "walked into another room and got a blouse, cap, tie and pair of shoes" which he "put on in the first-sergeant's room" and then left camp through a hole in the fence. First Sergeant Gustave V. Anderson, Company "A", 4th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, a prosecution witness, stated that an olive drab blouse, a garrison hat and a pair of civilian shoes were taken from his quarters 9 August 1943, the blouse being the property of the United States, issued to him for use in the'military service, and the hat and shoes, valued at eight dollars, were his personal property. He identified a blouse shown him as being the one taken" from his quarters at the same time the garrison cap and shoes were taken (R16). Captain Marshall F. Hollis, Infantry,

CONFIDENTIAL
CONriUENTIAL

(37)

Assistant Provost Marshal, 10th Replacement Depot, testified that in response to a telephone notification on the evening of the 25 August that accused had been apprehended, he went after accused whom he found dressed in civilian clothes with O.D. blouse, shirt, necktie, slacks and garrison cap bundled up, waiting to be "transported back to this depot". He identified the blouse found in accused’s possession as that owned by Sergeant Anderson. It had the sergeant's markings on it. "The civilian shoes were worn by the accused" (R17) who admitted taking the garrison cap and shoes from Sergeant Anderson’s room (R24-). The cap included with this clothing, was misplaced in the guardhouse and not produced in court (R18). Specification 3 of Charge V was proved.	t

A. The accused, at his own request, was sworn and gave a detailed story which was actually an admission of all the offenses charged.

5.	Many errors and irregularities involving the admissibility and exclusion of evidence and examination of witnesses have been noted by the Staff Judge Advocate. As they do not materially affect any of the substantial rights of the accused they require no further comment.

6.	Accused is of the age of 18 years and 2 months. He enlisted 7 January 1941 at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, with no prior service. His service period is governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941.

7.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, as approved, and the sentence.

8.	Pursuant to paragraph 5£, GO #37, ET0U5A, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, A December 1942, a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to a confinement of not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the crime of desertion in time of war. Article of VTar 42. As accused is under 31 years' of age with a sentence of not more than ten years, the designation

of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement is correct (War I	’	941).



- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(38)

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

_	2	8	OCT	1943

HD, Branch Office TJAG«, with ETOUSA.

Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA., APO 515, U.S.

TO* Commanding Army.

1. In the case of Private RUSSELL (NlJU) FAZIO (13012666), Company ”An, 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^-you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

2* When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 875. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 875).
#(39)

CONFIDENTIAL

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations

APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 882

UNITED STATES )

~ - ' )

V* )

Private BERT (NMI) BIQNDI ) (37133633), 7th Air Depot )

Group (Repair Squadron;, and ) Private CHARLES H. WHITE	}

(11091322), 33rd Air’Depot )

Group (Repair Squadron), both ) of Base Air Depot No, 1, VTH )

Air Force Service Command, ) .

-SNOVW

VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Warrington, Lancashire, England, 23 September 1943, Sentence as " to each accused: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for three years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio,

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHQEEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1,	The record,of trial*in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by thb'Board of Review,

2,	Accused were tried upon the following Charge and Specification!

CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification:	In	that	Private	Bert	(Nil)

Biondi, 7th Air Depot Group Repair Squadron,

AAF‘*590, APO 635, did, in conjunction with Private Charles H. White, 33rd Air Depot .Group Repair Squadron, AAF-590, APO 635, at or near Sankey, Warrington, Lancashire, England, on or about 5 August, 194-3, with intent to \	* commit a,felony, viz# rape, commit an assault

upon Margaret Moores by wilfully and feloniously dragging and throwing the said Margaret Moores	•	.	*

, upon the ground.

Each pleaded not guilty to and' each was found guilty of the Charge and Specification, No evidence of previous convictions'of either of the accused was introduced. Each was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged

the service, tg	pay	and	allowances	due	or	to	become due and

- 1 -
'	CONFIDENTIAL

to be confined at hard labor for three years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences and designated the federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement of each accused, and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50J-.

3.	Prosecution's evidence establishes the following facts*

On 5 August 19A3 accused Biondiwas a member of 7th Air Depot Group (Repair Squadron) and accused White Was a member of the 33rd Air Depot Group (Repair Squadron) jr both squadrons being of VIII Air Force Service Command*- On said date they were stationed at AAF Station 590,

APO 635, which was ‘at or near Sankey, Warrington, Lancashire, England.

Miss Margaret Moores, age 20, a brewery bottler by occupation, resided at 89 Southworth Avenue, Warrington, On the evening df 5 August 1943 Miss Moores (hereinafter called "Margaret" for convenience) at about the hour of 10*20 o'clock was standing on a bridge over St. Helen's canal. :

She was approached by White who asked her if "her time was booked". She repliedi "I am waiting for a boy friefnd" (R8,l2), She had never seen or talked with White previously. White then asked her to escort him across the field. She went halfway with him and then informed him that she was going home. After progressing a distance, she sat down on the grass with him. White kissed her to which she made no objections, and followed same by attempting indecent familiarities with her by putting his hand under her clothes. She repulsed him by saying to himi "Xou are not doing anything like that to me". She immediately stood up and attempted to run away (R9,12,18-19).	White followed her, chasing her about the field. He

finally caught her and held her in his arms. At this moment Biondi> appeared on the scene. White called to him "to corns and help him". Both accused then forced Margaret to the ground and laid her on her back.

White grasped her two hands and pulling them above her head pressed them, to the ground. An unidentified soldier appeared who grasped her ankles and spread her legs apart and held them. Margaret's dress had been pulled up and her naked 'thighs were exposed. - Biondi .was between Margaret's extended legs and laid upon her. She struggled to free herself and screamed once. White then placed his hand wer h$r mouth (R9,

11-U,17-19,34,37,39).

■ • ,

A thirteen-year old boy, Cyril Maher, 60 Ilford Avenue, Warrington, between 11*00 and 11*30 p.m, on 5 August 1943 saw Margaret in the field: being chased by two American soldiers one of whom he identified as Biondi (R24,27-28),	Cyril approached within ten yards of the trio and saw one

of the soldiers tackle the girl around the legs and throw her on to the ground. She lay on her back (R26), Biondi saiji to Cyril* "Take a powder". Cyril asked* "What does powder mean?" Biondi struck at Cyril with his hand and said* "Soram". Cyril ran to the field gate where Kenneth Powell, age 16, of St. Lawrence, Lodge Lane, Bewsey, was standing. Cyril informed Kenneth as to the events he had observed in the field (R26, 30,34). Kenneth walked into the field and saw Margaret on the ground with one man holding her ankles; another was on his knees between her legs

- 2 -

•NFIDENTIAL
^iFIDENTIAL	,Ui)

and a third was bending over her holding her hands to the ground, which were stretched parallel, with her body and above her head. Margaret's clothing was above-her thighs. She was struggling and crying. She said "Stop it". Kenneth told Margaret'that her mother wanted her. She made no reply. The soldier who held her hands told Kenneth to "scram" (R26,

31,3-4—35) •	Kenneth returned to the. field gate and informed an American

soldier, George Anderson, what was' happening. Anderson declined to do anything, stating it did not concern him (R25-26,32). . In close proximity were Sergeant Hoyle B. Koontz (3443514-5), Sergeant Leslie M. Pope (34467053), Private first class Ellis J. Lanier (34594764), Private first class James A. Jones (34467257), Private Shannon G. Hodge (34594612), and Private Lloyd F. Ray (34594450) all of Battery D, 461st Coast Artillery Battalion (R36).	Kenneth informed Koontz.that two-"fellows" had a girl on the .

ground.	Koontz with the other soldiers' went into the field. White was

holding Margaret’s hpids above her head; Biondi was lying on top of her.

The girl’s legs were' held apart by a third unidentified man. The lower part of her body was nude. She was struggling and crying "Don’t, stop it" (R37,39,43,47,49,50,52,53,56).	Koontz yelledt "What the hell are you

doing7" Lanier grabbed Biondi around the neck and pulled him off Margaret. Jones struck White-with his fist and removed bjm from Margarets arms. A scuffle ensued. White started to run but was captured. The third unidentified man escaped into the woods. Koontz said to Biondi that "just because he was in England he couldn't get away with it like that", Biondi replied* PI am sorry, I will never do it again". .Margaret upon being _ released left the scene (R37-38,40,45,47,51,54).

Sergeant Alfred G. Prince, 1108 Military Police Company, secured, from accused Biondi some of his underwear consisting of "trunks" or "shorts" which Prince identified in court. Biondi informed Prince that he had- worn the trunks on the night of the. incident and removed them in Prince’s presence. Prince took them back to headquarters and delivered them to Sergeant Thomas J. Horan of the 890th Police Company (R57). Horan identified trunks shown,, him in court as the trunks he received from Prince on 7 August 1943, and delivered to Detective Inspector Hays of the Widnes Station on the same date (R58). Hays delivered them to Dr. David Hoel Jones, -Staff Biologist and Bacteriologist at the Home Office Science Laboratory in Preston on 9 Aug”st 1943 (R59). The Detective. Inspector at ItOO a.m. 7 August 1943 secured from Margaret the pair of knickers which she wore on the night of 5 August 1943 (R20-21). Hays delivered the knickers to Dr. Jone3 at the same time he delivered the trunks (R60).

Dr. Jones made an examination of the trunks and the knickers. He found an the knickers extensive stains of a vaginal discharge containing a large number of pus cells and bacteria. He also examined and tested the trunks. There was on the front of the trunks a small yellow stain similar in appearance to the stain on the knickers. Upon examination he discovered that the stain on the trunks was of the same constitution as the stain on the knickers. It contained a large number x£ bacteria and pus cells of the Identical type and kind as found on the knickers. Dr. Jones was of the opinion it was a probability that the pus cells found on the trunks and

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(42)	CONFIDENTIAL

the knickers* came from the same person (R61-62).

A. The defense produced Private Fred Lane whose unit is not shown, who testified he was,with the.group of American soldiers near the field-gate on the night of. 5 August 19A3 when a hoy approached them and informed them that a hunch of • boys was "sheep-shanking” a girl over in the field (R63). He approached with the group of soldiers to a position about ten paces from the girl. He saw one soldier holding the girl’s hands, another was holding her feet and a third was on top of her. She was struggling.

He then made a jump at the soldiers and a fight ensued in which he was injured.- He could recognise.no one in th%6ourt room who was present and could not identity either the men or the girl involved (R6A).

The accused Biondi was duly warned of his rights and elected to make a sworn statement. He testified in substance as follows!

On the evening of 5 August 1943, White and a girl were standing in a field about one hundred yards from the field gate. They were engaged in conversation. Biondi came up to them. The three of them sat down on the grass. After they sat down Biondi put his arms around the girl’s neck. He did not try to kiss her. At this moment seven or eight American soldiers came up to them. . White .was sitting close to the girl .(R66-67).

One of the soldiers came over and jumped on top of Biondi who arose and got away from him. Another, hit him -on -the back of his head and knocked him down. He made no remarks and ran away (R&7). Biondi upon cross-examination attempted to claim that Margaret was not the girl to whom he made improper advances. The pertinent colloquy is as follows! .

"Q. And you didn’t attempt in any way whatsoever to have intercourse with Kiss Moores?

A. Ho sir. .

Q. I want to ask you whether you made the following statement to Sgt. T.J. Horani •

’After sitting with her a few minutes I put my arm around her and tried to have . intercourse with her’.

A. Yes sir.

Q. You made that statement?

A. Yes.

Q. Why is it that you have changed your mind now and say you didn’t have intercourse wd,th her?

A. Not her I didn’t.

Q. You did attempt to have intercourse with i	a girl?	.

A. Yes, if there was another one. It wasn't . her.

Q. There was a girl you attempted to have intercourse with. Let's talk about this girl you attempted to have intercourse

- A -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

U3)

with. Were you with this girl when the other soldiers came up?

A, Yes.	/

Q. ’.That position were you in with relation to the other girl when the soldiers came up?

A* Sitting down beside her,

Q. In what way did you attempt to have intercourse with this girl?

A. On her own concern.

Q. Describe to the Court what you did in attempting to Have intercourse with her,

A. I didn't sit there long enough to try to have sexual intercourse with her,

Q. You have just said you were there with the girl and attempted to have intercourse with her.

A. I just sat there with my arm around her and I didn't have chance to have intercourse with her before the boys came.

Q. And that is all you did in attempting to have intercourse with her?

A. Yes." (R69-70).

He did not recognise the soldiers who attacked him, nor had he previously known White or the girl. He did' not "learn the girl's name that evening. He denied he had seen either Cyril Maher or Kenneth Powell in the "field that evening and asserted that"11 All "I saw was soldiers11 (R7A).

The record fails to show that White was informed as to his rights to testify, make an unsworn "statement or to remain silent. He was not a witness and he made no unsworn statement.

5. A serious question is presented in connection with the charge against accused, Vfiiite. Eliminating from the specification all descriptive allegations, the same is as follows*

" Private Bert Biondi ***, did, in conjunction with Private Charles "H^ White **** with intent to commit a felony, viz,'rape, commit an assault upon Margaret Moores by wilfully and feloniously dragging and throwing the said Margaret Moores upon the ground."

With respect to the form of. specification in charging a joint offense the I/knual for Courts-Martial provides as follows*

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
<u)

CONFIDENTIAL

"f. Form of specification in joint offense.-% In the case of a joint offense each accused ■ may be charged-as if he alone was concerned or the specifications may be in accordance with the principles of the following examples, depending on the decision of the person preferring the charges as to how the persons concerned should be tried*

In that Private A, Company —,-----Infantry,

and Private C, Company —, —1 Infantry, acting jointly, and in pursuance of a common Intent, did (here allege place, time and offense as when charging one person). .

In that Private A, Company. —, — Infantry, and Private B, Company —, — Infantry, acting jointly and in pursuance of a common intent, did, in conjunction with Private C?

Company —, — Infantry (here allege place, time and offense).

In that Private C, Company —, -— Infantry,.

.did, in conjunction with Private A, Conpany —,<f.

---Infantry, and Private B, Company —, —-	, •

Infantry (here allege place, time and offense)." y (1EM., 1928, appendix 4, par.f, p.237).	•»'

It is manifest that the specification in the instant case is based on the third’ of the suggested forms above set forth. An analysis of the three forms will reveal their exact purpose*	.'r'...

(a)	The first form is intended for use when A and C are all of the joint perpetrators of a crime and it Is intended that they should be charged jointly and shall be tried. (All of the joint perpetrators are charged together and are to he tried).

(b)	The second form is intended for use when A, B and C are the joint perpetrators of a crime, and it is intended that only A and B shall be charged jointly and shall be tried but that C, while joint actor is neither to be charged nor tried. (Two or more of the joint perpetrators are charged and are to be tried, but one or more are not to be charged and tried).

(c)	The third form is intended for use when A, B and C are the joint perpetrators’ of a crime and it is intended that only A shall be charged and tried but that B and C while joint actors are neither to be charged nor tried.] (Only one of the joint perpetrators is charged and is to be tried, and one or more are not to be charged and tried).

Certain fundamental principles of pleading must be observed in drafting specifications and the primary one is that a specification "must specify the material facts necessary to constitute .the alleged offense".

A	-	6	-

CONFIDENTIAL

i
(45)

CONFIDENTIAL

('.Tint hr op’s Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.l33j IBM., 1928, par.29,

p.18).

"An indictment, information or complaint must be positive in respect to the charge that the person accused committed the crime which renders him amenable to the charge and must directly and positively allege every fact necessary to constitute the crime. Nothing can be charged by implication or intendment, nor is it sufficient to charge any material matter by way of argument, or as based on suspicion; the offense cannot be charged on information and belief, nor can the averments be aided by imagination or presumption. **-*»

(31 C.J., sec.179, p.659).

"The allegation of the indictment or information must be direct and certain as to the person charged.	(31	C.J., sec.226, p.689).

The v/ords of action in the present specification are "did *** commit an assault". It is Biondi who is specifically connected with this verb phrase -."Biondi *** did ** commit an assault". The prepositional phrase "in connection with *** White" is descriptive only; it describes with whom Biondi was associated in the commission of the assault. The prepositional phrase "with an intent to commit a felony" refers to Biondi, not White.

The meaning of the specification becomes obvioust

"Biondi, in conjunction with Thite, and with intent to commit a felony, did commit an assault etc."	1

There is, therefore, no allegation that White committed any offense. The specification violates the fundamental principle of pleading that the "indictment, information or.complaint must be positive in respect to the charge that the person accused committed the crime which renders him amenable to the charge". The result is that the instant specification fails to allege a cause of action against White. He was brought to trial upon a specification which was fatally defective as to him. Such defect was not waived by his plea to the general issue, nor by his failure to raise the question during triad. It was an organic defect which nullified the whole prosecution against White. It may be considered by the Board of Review upon appellate review (17 C.J., sec.3330, p.55, footnote 92; 24. CJ5., sec.1671, footnote 30, p.275; CM 201710, Reynolds (1933)).

The provisions of the 37th Article of War do not permit the Board of Review to ignore this situation. The Manual for Courts-Martial in amplifying the purpose of said article states:

- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

U6)

"No finding or sentence need be disapproved solely because a specification is defective if the facts alleged therein and reasonably .	implied	therefrom constitute an offense,

unless it appears from .the record that the accused was in fact misled by such defect, or that his substantial rights were in fact otherwise injuriously affected thereby".

(lOt., 1928, par.87b, p.74).

The error in the specification as against White, is not a defective statement of facts constituting an. offense. It wholly fails to. allege that White committed any offense. As a consequence the defect is not within the purview of the curative statute, and is fatal to these proceedings.

*"There can be no trial, conviction, or punishment for a crime without a formal and sufficient accusation. In the absence thereof the court acquires no jurisdiction whatever, and if it assumes jurisdiction, a trial and conviction are a nullity. *-**" (31 Corpus Juris, sec.l,

P.559).	.	'	.	•	.

The Board of Review, therefore, concludes, that as to accused White the record of trial is legally insufficient to’support'the findings of guilty and the sentence.

6. Separate charge sheets were originally prepared as to each accused, Biondi was charged with committing rape upon. Margaret under AW 92; White was charged with an assault upon Margaret with intent to commit a felony, viz: rape, under AW 93. Both charges were referred to Major Edwyn G, Rydlun, AC., for investigation under the 70th Article of War. In his report he expressed the.opinion that the.evidence did not sustain the __charge cf rape a gainst Biondi and recommended that he be charged with assault with intent to commit rape under AW 93. The investigating officer recommended that White be brought to trial as charged.'

Upon reference to the staff judge advocate he altered the charge sheet in the case against Biondi by striking out the charge of rape and inserting in lieu thereof a charge against Biondi under AW 93 of a felon-' ious assault with intent to commit rape upon Margaret. On the White charge sheet he eliminated the.original charge a gainst White of felonious assault with intent to commit rape and inserted in lieu thereof a charge against Biondi under AW 93 of felonious assault upon Margaret, with intent to commit rape, "in conjunction with" White. He then eliminated from the Biondi charge sheet the substituted charge under AW 93 of felonious assault with intent to commit rape and upon the White charge sheet first struck out the substituted charge against Biondi of felonious assault, and then reinstated it in the’identical language set forth in paragraph 2 supra. Based upon this action the staff judge advocate recommended trial of both accused upon charges of assault ±m with intent to commit a felony, viz: rape.

- 8 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(47)

The result of these alterations is: (a) the original charge sheet against Biondi carries no charges against him inasmuch as both the original and substituted charges were eliminated; (b) the original charge sheet against White carries no valid, legal charge against him for the reasons set forth in paragraph 5, supra, and (c) the charge'against Biondi appears on the original White charge sheet. In preparing the charge sheets in final form the third and fourth pages of the Biondi original charge sheet were » eliminated but the single charge against Biondi (appearing on the original White charge sheet) remained over the verifying affidavit of the White charge sheet.

Both charge sheets show that the accuser - Captain Jesse B. Kritzer - did not initial all or any of the alterations in the charge sheets. The initials appearing are evidently those of a subordinate officer in the office of the staff judge advocate. The alterations in respect to Biondi were of such a nature as to be proper without re-verification by the accuser, and the substitution of the charge of assault with intent to commit a felony, viz: rape, in lieu of the charge of rape did not require a re-investigation (CM ETO 106, Orbon).

It is obvious that the staff judge advocate intended the charge sheet against both accused should consist of: (a) the first page of the original Biondi charge sheet; (b) in the first page of the original White charge sheet; (c) a third page which carried the charge which he supposed was valid against both accused; '(d) a fourth page carrying the verification and indorsement of reference for trial, and (e) a fifth page showing certificate of service. Manifestly, he acted upon the assumption that the charge in the final form and upon which trial was had was a valid and legal charge against both Biondi and White. In this conclusion he was in error, as is above demonstrated.	It failed to charge White with any offense, but was

valid as to Biondi.	While the above practice is not to be 'commended the

charge sheet in final form adequately informed accused Biondi of the nature of the charge against him. He could not possibly have been misled.

I

7.	The form of the plea of the two accused - "To the Specification of the Charge - Not guilty. To the Charge - Not guilty" (R5) is irregular.

The plea of each accused should have been separate and several and the same

' should have been recorded separately in the record of trial (MCM., 1928, par.49c, p.38). Inasmuch as White was never legally before the court because of the fatally defective specification, the plea was applicable only to Biondi and in its present form it is obvious that he pleaded "Not Guilty".

8.	The motion of the defense counsel "for an acquittal" may properly be treated as a motion for a finding of not guilty. It was made on behalf of accused jointly on the ground that specific intent to commit a felony had not been proved (R62), Had defense counsel in his motion pointed out ' to the court the fatal defect in the specification when applied to White, the court should have granted the motion as to him. However, the failure of counsel to make his motion in proper form was not a waiver of the error (See par,5, supra) as to White. The motion as to Biondi was properly

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(48)

denied* The prosecution had clearly made its case against him at the time of the motion. (GM ETO 527, Astrella). '	*

9* Biondi’ stands charged with assault with intent to commit a felony, vizt rape.

"Assault with intent to commit rape.- This is an attempt to commit rape in which the overt act amounts to an assault upon the woman intended to be ravished. •****. The intent to * have carnal knowledge of the woman assaulted by force and without her consent must exist and concur with the assault. In other words, the man' must intend to overcome any resistance ' by force, actual or constructive,-and penetrate the woman's person. Any less intent will not suffice., ' Once an assault with intent to commit rape is made, it is no defense that the man voluntarily desisted." (LEM., 1928, par.

U9 1, p.179).

"To constitute an assault with intent to rape, there must be, coupled with the required intent, an overt act amounting to an assault upon the female, **«». Generally, the assault may consist of any act tending to an injury, accompanied by circumstances denoting an intent, coupled with a present ability, to use violence against the person, whether there is any battery or not, for in fact there may be an assault with intent to commit rape without any battery. *#**." (52 C.J., sec.42',-pp.1030,1031).

Biondi's participation in the assault on Margaret is established beyond reasonable doubt. The testimony of Koontz (R38), Pope (R43), Lanier -(ll47) and Jones (R50) forms a substantial and reliable body of proof'that it was Biondi who was directly attempting the rape- of the girl. He was on his knees between her outstretched legs as she was held helpless on her back on.thfe ground. The testimony of Dr.'Robert Noel Jones, biologist and bacteriologist, who examined Margaret's knickers and accused Biondi's shorts or trunks, that the stains on these articles of clothing were identical in> nature and contained the same pus cells and bacteria is highly convincing that Biondi had exposed his person in the execution of his nefarious purpose. That he possessed the desire and intent to have sexual intercourse with Margaret is strikingly revealed by his testimony on cross-examination hereinbefore set forth in extenso (R69-72). He was frustrated in his attempt only by the timely interference of Koontz and his fellow soldiers. There was substantial evidence upon which to base the finding of his specific intent to rape Margaret at the time and place alleged. All of the elements of the crime were clearly proved against Biondi and in* the state of the

— 10 —

CONFIDENTIAL
U9)

CONFIDENTIAL

evidence the court would not have been justified in making any other finding than it did (CM ETO 78, Witts: CM ETO 489, Rhinehart and Fallucco; CM ETO 492, Lewis: CM ETO 595, Sines; CM ETO 678, DlHuosclo).

The fact that Margaret was unable to identify Biondi as one of her assailants (RIO,12,20) or was uncertain as to the identity of the soldier who was on top of her (RIO) or that she fin^llv declared that it was White and not Biondi who occupied .such position (R14) does not in any respect weaken the foregoing conclusion. Confronted with two, and probably three strange soldiers who assaulted and maltreated her viciously and brutally in the obvious attempt to rape her, there is nothing strange or improbable in her confusion and uncertainty. In any event Margaret's testimony insofar as it conflicted with other evidence presented by the prosecution created only an issue of fact which it was the duty of the court to resolve. Inasmuch as there is substantial evidence to support the court’s finding the Board of Review cannot and will not disturb it (CM ETO 106, Orbon: CM ; ETO 492, Lewis: CM ETO.774, Cooper. Jr: CM ETO 799, Booker).

•	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally

sufficient to support the finding of Biondi’s guilt.

10.	Accused Biondi was 29 years 11 months of age at the time of the commission of the offense. He was inducted at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri on 5 February 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months. Accused White was 19 years 2 months of age on 5 August 1943 and was inducted at

New Bedford, Massachusetts on 13 October 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months. ’

11.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of accused,

Biondi and of the offense charged against him. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused Biondi were committed during the trial, but prejudicial and fatal error was committed as to accused White. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, and the sentence as to accused Biondi, but is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence as to accused White.	’

- 11 - '

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.'

- ^ NOV 19^3

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.. 0 n	TOi	Commanding

General, VTII Air Force Service Command, APO 633, U.S, Army.

1.	In the case of Private BERT (NI.CE) BIONDI (37133633), 7th Air Depot Group (Repair Squadron) and Private CHARLES H. WHITE (11091322), 33rd Air Depot Group (Repair Squadron), both of Base Air Depot No. 1, VIII Air Force Service Command attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review, that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence as to the accused Biondi and legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence as to accused White, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5G^> you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence imposed upon accused Biondi. The order should, of course, promulgate the vacation of White's sentence.

2.	.White was before the court upon a Charge and Specification which failed to allege that he committed any crime. In legal Affect he was not tried, and he has therefore never been placed in jeopardy. The evidence is convincing that White is equally guilty with Biondi of the felonious assault upon the young woman. No legal reason, in my opinion, exists against properly charging and trying him for the assault with intent to commit a felony, vizi rape, upon Miss Moores.

3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office,

they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and.this indorsement. The file number of the record in this pffice is ETO 882. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the ordert (ETO 882).'	'

'S*' E. c. McNEIL,

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

- 1 _*■_____________

E	..	.

08782920
#(51)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with.the •

European Theater of Operations

APO 871

BOARD CF REVIEW ETO 885

U N I T'E D STATES ) v.

Private RAYMOND (111,2) VAN HORN	)

(33043&98), Conpany A,	First	;

Provisional Battalion,	10th	)

Replacement Depot.	)

29 OCT 1943

WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES -OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at ' Whittington BarrackB, Lichfield,• England, 23 September 1943* Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five- years. Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHCTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	.The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.-

2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications t

CHARGE I:	Violation of the 61st Article of War.

Specification! In' that Private Raymond (NM) Van Horn, Company A., First Provisional Battalion,

10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,

Lichfield, Staffordshire,' England, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his Organization at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield,

Staffordshire, England, from on or about 1250 hours, 12 July 1943, until he was apprehended in Birmingham, Warwickshire, England 'on or about 10 August 1943 at 2230 hours.

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(52)	CONFIDENTIAL

CHARGE II* Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification 1» In that Private Raymond (NMI) Van Horn, Company A., First Provisional Battalion,

10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks,

Lichfield,' Staffordshire, England, did, at Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about A August 19A3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away, six knives and six forks, of the value cf less than twenty ($20.00) dollars, the property of Victor Baker, 2/A Brass Street,

Birmingham, Warwickshire, England,

Specification 21 ' In that Private Raymond (NMl) Van Horn, Company A., First Provisional Battalion,

10th Replacement Depot, Whittington. Barracks, *

Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about 3 August 19A3, feloniously embezzle by fraudulently converting to his 'own use, a ring, of the value of less than twenty ($20.00) dollars, the property of Mr. Manuel Morris, l/A Brass Street,

Birmingham, Warwickshire* England, entrusted to him by Mrs. Ruby Morris, l/A Brass Street,

Birmingham, Warwickshire, England.

He pleaded guilty to Charge I and to its Specification, not guilty to Charge II and to both specifications thereunder, and was found guilty of all charges and specifications. Evidence of thre'e previous convictions for absences without leave for 53, 21 and 2 days respectively in violation of Article of War 61, and of one previous conviction for attempting to strike a soldier with a knife in violation of Article of War 96, was * introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined" at hard labor at such place as the reviewing.authority may direct fdr five years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the * Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks,' Bee'kman, New York, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 5(%.

3* Because of the pleas of guilty to Charge I and to its Specification (absence without leave in violation of Article of War 6l) the prosecution introduced no evidence with respect to this offense (R5)»

With reference to the offense alleged in Specification 1, Charge II (larceny of six forks and six knives in violation of Article of War 93), . the undisputed evidence for the prosecution shows that Mrs. Janet Baker, 2/A Brass Street,. Summer Lane, Birmingham, England first met accused in a pub where she was employed. ' It was on a Tuesday or Wednesday morning during the latter part of July (19A3). He appeared to be lonely and she gave him a drink. He told her he was in trouble, that he had been robbed

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(53)

of 25 pounds* She invited him to her home for dinner and looked after him until the following Monday when he left, saying that he had to go. He returned during the week on two or three occasions and then was not seen again until Wednesday of the following week (A August). On that day Mrs. Baker was out from about noon until 3*00 p.m. As had been her custom for 24. years, she did not lock the door when leaving the house but merely latched it. When she returned the latch was undone. She missed a cutlery set belonging to her son. Victor which set was in the bottom drawer in Victor’s room where accused had slept. ‘ The set was in a black case lined with white satin and consisted of six fish-knives and six fish-forks.

Mrs. Baker did not know the value of the set which her son had won five years before at "Lucas's Sports" (R6-8).

About 6:00 p.m. Wednesday (4. August) Mr, Terence Maguire, 15 Linton Road, Pheasey Estates, Great Barf, Birmingham saw accused at the bus depot, Birchfield Road, Perry Barr, where he worked. Maguire had seen him the week before when he had been in and obtained a loan on a ring from a man named Blizard. He opened a black box lined with pale silk containing six highly polished fish-knives and six fish-forks with bone or celluloid handles. He said that he had won the set and 10 pounds at a rollerskating competition in London. He wanted to'see Blizard who had the ring, and wanted to get the ring back and one pound in addition for the cutlery. Maguire decided to buy the set himself, borrowed 30 shillings and paid the same to accused for the cutlery. As the catch on the box was broken he mended it with two ordinary steel pins. As the result of receiving certain information he informed the police several days later that he had purchased the set. He 'identified the box and contents at the trial as the articles in question, and they were admitted in evidence with cqnsent of defense (R9-11; Pros.Ex.A). '

With reference to the offense alleged in Specification 2, Charge II (embezzlement of a ring in violation of Article of War 93), the evidence for the prosecution, which was undisputed, shows that Mrs. Ruby Morris, '' 1/4. Brass Street, Summer Lane, Birmingham, England first met accused "the week before August - July- when mother brought him home" (R12). He stayed one week at her mother's, after which she saw him for a fortnight at various intervals (R13). During this time she kept company with accused and went to the motion pictures with him and the children. He admired her husband's ring which was on her finger and said that he would like to wear it. She loaned it to him "because of friendship", telling him that it was a loan. She did not give it to him to sell. The ring was gold and had "a square on it" with her husband's initials "M.M" which stood for Manuel Morris. Later he returned the ring to her "and then he had it back again". She did. not see the ring again until the police brought it. Accused told her that a young girl at Perry Barr had "pinched" it from him, Mrs. Morris identified by the initials and shape, a ring shown to her at the trial as the ring in question. She had purchased it for three pounds, five shillings and had paid one shilling, nine pence to have the initials put on (R12-13).

- 3~

r^MFinFNTlAL
(54)

CONFIDENTIAL'

Mr. Frederick G.-Blizard, 109 Curbar Road, Beeches Estate, Birmingham Was a mechanic at the Birmingham Corporation Transport Depot, Birchfield garage. • One morning accused entered’the mess room at about 700 a.m. and after eating asked Blizard if he would like to buy a ring which he was wearing. Blizard refused Whereupon accused asked if he would lend him something on it so that he could return to Lichfield Barracks. Blizard then offered ten shillings on the ring and told him that if he wanted it to be "in pawn” he could get il back at any time.

He also" gave him his name and address and told him that if he was "stuck" for a place1 he could come to his house for dinner. Accused said that he would come for the ring_ the following evening. The ring"was of the gold signet type with "M.M" stamped on the top. Blizard identified a ring shown him at the trial as the-ring in question and it was admitted in evidence (R14j Pros^Ex.B).

It was stipulated by the prosecution and the defense that accused was a member of the military service of the United States (Rl6).

4.	For the defense. Private John A. Jones, Company A, First Provisional Military Police Battalion, testified that about JulyJLOth he had gone on pass to Walsall with accused who had been "shooting craps" and

who had about 70 pounds. He last saw him about 17 July at camp (Lichfield Barracks) when he came to Jones' barracks to have his clothes pressed (R17).

' Accused at his own request made a sworn statement to the effect that about 10 July he went absent without leave. He and Jones went to Walsall, remained over night and returned to camp. Accused was then drunk and returned to Walsall for two or three days. About 7 August he had a fight during which a civilian hit him over the eye, and upon regaining his senses he found thafhe was in a hospital in Birmingham, Upon leaving the hospital to turn himself in as absent without leave he met some "bobbies" who asked if he had been in a fight "down here last night". When he replied in the affirmative,'they suggested he go to the police station to see about some money he had lost." He did bo, and at the station asked that the military police be called so that he could surrender. While he was waiting for their arrival he was questioned by a civilian. He informed the military policeithat he had been'absent 28 days. As^he was out qf_. his'head he did not know whether or not he got the forks and knives. He did not remember, anything of the period between 10 July and the time‘of the fight because he was drunk (R18-19).

5.	Accused pleaded guilty to the alleged offense of absence without leave (Charge I and Specification).

Although proof of the dates alleged in Specifications 1 and 2 of" Charge II was not definitely established, considering all the testimony it is apparent that the offenses were committed during the latter part of July or the first‘week in August. No question as to the date of commission of the offenses was raised by the defense. There was no doubt as to the

- 4 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(55)

identity of the articles involved as the descriptions given by Mrs. Baker and Mrs. Morris sufficiently coincided with those of Mr. Maguire and Mr. Blizard. Although the value of the articles was not fully established, they were before the court as exhibits and its findings that they were of some value less than $20 were clearly justified (MCM., 1928, par,149g, P.173).

Accused’s possession of the recently stolen cutlery was not satisfactorily explained and may raise a presumption that he stole the property (HEM., 1928, par ,112a, p.110). Also,

"Proof of a subsequent sale of stolen property goes to show intent to steal, and, therefore, evidence of such sale may be introduced to support charges of larceny." (M3M., 1928, par.

H9& P.173).

It was clearly established by the evidence that Mrs. Morris loaned the ring to accused and that he pawned it shortly thereafter.

"*** where an article is borrowed **, the person borrowing ** it does not commit a larceny if he subsequently, while holding the property as a borrower, *** decides to and does convert the article to his own use. In such a case there is no trespass and the offense is, . in consequence, not larceny but embezzlement"

(HEM., 1928, par.U9g, p.172).

"The loan of a topcoat by one friend to another, through an informal transaction, involves an element of trust in the borrower by the lender.

Pawning it or selling it is a breach of that trust, and constitutes the offense of embezzlement under A.W, 93, Ah defined in paragraph 149&, Manual for Courts-Martial" (Dig,Ops.JAG.,

1912-194-0, sec.45l(l8), p.317) (Underscoring supplied).

The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge II and of the specifications thereunder.

6.	The review of the assistant staff judge advocate and the addendum . thereto of the staff judge advocate, Western Base Section, SOS, ET00SA contains comments on certain irregularities contained in the record of trial. Further comment thereon is unnecessary.

7,	The charge sheet shows that accused is 23 years of age and that he was inducted 9 May 1941, his service being governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941. He had no prior service.

\

- 5 —

CONFIDENTIAL
(56)

CONFIDENTIAL

*

8,	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during thp trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. • .

Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA,' 4 December 1942 a sentence of, dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner; may be returned, to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or; more. The designation of the Pastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York as the placp of. confinement is correct (War Department circular No. 210, 14 September 1943, par.2&, sec.VlX



Judge Advocate Judge Advocate Advocate

CONFIDENTIAL-
CONFIDENTIAL

(?7)

1st

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 2 9 OCT 1943 TQ| commanding Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515,- U.S. Army.

1, In the case of Private RAYMOND (NIH) VAN HCRN (330A3698),

Company A, First Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot attention is invited'to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record , of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50% you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.	>

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding anc^this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 885. For convenience of referenc (ETO 885).

at^>place that number in brackets at the end of the order:

/ /e. C, McNEIL, gadier General, United States Assistant Judge Advocate General,

#(59)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General *	*	with	the

• • European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 895

10 FEB 1944

UNITED STATES	)

)

v.	)

Private (formerly First Sergeant) ' j FRED A; DAVIS (19046017), Staff Serg- ) eant PHILIP (NMI) WADE (34052926),	)

Private (formerly Corporal) IEROY	)

(NMI) GALLIER (34154618), Sergeant	)

(formerly Corporal) CARROL T. REED	)

(34145879), Corporal EDWARD R.	)

WILLIAMS, JR., (34136A68), Private	)

First Class HAROLD F. FRELOT (34154584); ) all of-the foregoing being of 1958th	)

Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).	.)

1515th Quartermaster Truck Battalion	)

(Avn.); First Sergeant GEORGE W.	)

PATTERSON (13010389), Private JAMES D. ) HILL (34064160), Private WILLIAM L.	)

OGLETREE (34064159), T/5 MAX I. CRADIC ) (39232918), Corporal (formerly T/5)	)

HILLRIE (NMI) SAFFO (34063445), Private ) First Class (formerly Private) IEVE	)

(NMI) ENffiAM (34064059), Private	)

BEUFFCRD (NMI) FLAGG (39232993),Private	)

JESSIE F. KIRKSEY • (3A0563A5). all of ) the foregoing being of 1945th Quarter- j . master Truck Company (Avn.). 1515th	)

Quartermaster Truck Battalion LAvn.):	)

Private (formerly Sergeant) JAMES H.	)

HORTON (34062018), Private (formerly	)

T/5 MATTHEW (NMI) ARBUCKLE (34181309),	)

Private WILLIAM H. AVERT, JR.,(14072962),) Private SIDNEY G.. KENDALL (34064789),	)

Private KERMIT R. MACK (14068043),	)

Private JAMES H. WISE (6996370), all of ) the foregoing being of 1949th Quarter- ) master Truck Company (Avn.). 1515th	)

Quartermaster Truck Battalion (Avn.).;	)

VIII AIR FCRCE SERVICE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 586 on 3-9, 11-19 September 1943.

NOT GUILTY: Purcelle T. Johnson. Trlolett. James A. Williams. Alexander. Robinson. Bailey. Doakeg. DISAPHIOVED: Magee. SENTENCES: Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor, Davis 10 years. Hill 10 years, Reed 9 years, Starks 8 years, Wade 7 years, Gallier 7 years, Patterson 7 years, Walter Johnson 7 years, Ogletree 3 years, Kendall 3 years, Mack 3 years, Eastern-Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York; Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor. Cradle 2 years, Avery 2 years, James E. Johnson 2 years, Edward R. Williams 1 year, Frelot 1 year, Saffo 1 year, Engram 1 year, Flagg 1 year, Klrksey 1 year, Horton 1 year, Arbuckle 1 year. Wise 1 year. Roach 1 year. Smith 1 year, Terrell 1 year,

Grlgg 1 year, 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England.

- 1 -

CONFIDENTS
CONFIDENTIAL

Private "HALTER (MI) JOHNSON (34206503), ) T/5FURCELLE T. JOHNSON (11096029), T/5 ) RANDOLPH R. TRIPIETT (32162207), T/5 :	)

JAMES A. WILLIAMS (37209332), Private ) First Glass CURTIS (NMl) ALEXANDER	)

(323U203), Priv&te First Class	)

PEMBERTON J. ROACH, JR.,' (11089667),	)

Private First Class ROBERT (NMI).SMITH ) (34245563)^ Private First Class BERNARD ) (NMI) TERRELL (32161543), Private LEE ) (NMI) GRIGG,' JR.,' ’(12027912), Private ) JAMES E. JOHNSON (33066560), all of the ) foregoing being of 1933rd Quartermaster ) Truck Company (Avn.K 1513th Quarter- ) master Truck‘Battalion (Avn):Staff	)

Sergeant HOMER E. ROBINSON (34145841),	)

T/4 EDWARD (NMI) BAILEY (14014726),	)

Corporal JULIUS (NMI) MAGEE (14014606),	)

Private LLOYD K. DOAKES (38022281),	)

Private WILLIAM O. STARKS (35207247),	)

all of the foregoing being of 1994th	)

Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).	'

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RHER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT^ Judge Advocates /

1; The record of.trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review,

2. The accused were tried upon the following charges and specifications:

CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	66th	Article	of War,

Specification 1:	In	that	Private	(than 1st Sergeant) Fred A,

Pavi3. Staff Sergeant Philip (NMI) Wa£§, Jr., Private (then Corporal) Leroy (NMI) Gallier, Sergeant (then Corporal) Carrol T. Reed, Corporal Edward R, Williams,

Jr., and Private First Class Harold F. Frelot, of the 1958th Q.M. Truck Co., (Avn), 1515th Q.M. Truck Battalion (Avn)., 1511th Q.M. Truck Regiment (Avn) (SP); 1st Sergeant George W. Patterson, Private James D. Hill,

Private William L. Ogletree, T/5 Max I. Cradic, Corporal

All of thS 1511th "giiar^rmaster Regiment



)

)

2
CONFIDENTIAL

(then T/5) Hlllrie (NMI) Saffo, Private First Class ■ (then Private) Leve (NMI) Engrain, Private Beufford (NMI) Flagg, and Private Jessie F. Kirksey, of the 1945th Q.M. Truck Co. (Avn), 1515th Q.M. Truck Battalion (Avn), 1511th Q.M. Truck Regiment (Avn)

(SP); Private (then Sergeant) James H. Horton,

Private (then T/5) Matthew (NMI) Arbuckle, Private William H. Avery, Jr., Private Sidney G. Kendall, Private Kermit R. Mack, and Private James H. Wise, of the 1949th Q.M. Truck Co. (Avn), 1515th Q.M. Truck Battalion (Avn), 1511th Q.M. Truck Regiment (Avn) (SP)j Private Walter (NMI) Johnson, T/5 Purcelle T. Johnson,/ T/5 Randolph R. Triplett, T/5 Jamds/Williams, Private First Class Curtis (NMI) Alexander/Private First Class Pemberton J. Roach, Jr., Private First Class Robert (NMI) Smith, Private First Clas3 Bernard (NMI) Terrell, Private Lee (NMI) Grigg, Jr., and Private James E. Johnson, of the 1933rd Q.M. Truck Co, (Avn), 1513th Q.M. Truck Battalion (Avn), 15Uth Q.M. Truck Regiment (Avn) (SP); Staff Sergeant Homer E. Robinson, T/4 Edward (NMI) Bailey, Corporal Julius (NMI) Magee, Private (then Private First Class) Lloyd K. Doakes, and Private William 0. Starks, of the 1994th Q.M.

Truck Co. (Avn), 1513th Q.M. Truck Battalion (Avn), 15Hth Q.M. Truck Regiment (Avn) (SP); acting jointly and in pursuance of a. common intent, did, at AAF . , Station 569 and vicinity, on or- about 24 and 25 June 1943, voluntarily join in a mutiny which had begun in AAF Station 569 and vicinity against the lawful military authority of Major George C. Heris, QMC, acting commanding officer of said Station and other officers of paid Station, and'did, with the intent to usurp, subvert and override said lawful military authority for the time being, in concert with sundry other . members of said 1511th Q.M. Truck Regiment assembled at various places in said Station and vicinity, wrongfully and unlawfully seize arms and ammunition by breaking into store rooms, bear, arms,. disregard ahd ignore the lawful efforts of their superior officers to have them return to barracks and surrender their arms, make inflammatory statements in the presence, of other, soldiers, bargain with their superior officers as to. conditions under which they would cease their mutinous conduct, fire upon their superior officers,' and refuse to.disperse and. cease making preparations for fighting with Military Police, TT.S. Army.

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(62)

Specification 2:	In	that	*	* * *	***********

acting jointly and in pursuance5'of a common intent, did, at AAF Station 569 and vicinity, on or about 24 and 2"5 June 194-3, voluntarily join'in a mutiny which had begun at AAF Station 569 and vicinity against the lawful military authority of the Military Police, U,S. Amy,' and did, with the intent to usurp, subvert and override said military authority for the time being, in concert with sundry other members of said 1511th Q.M. Truck Regiment assembled at various places in said Station and vicinity, wrongfully and unlawfully take up arms against and fire upon members of the said Military Police.

CHARGE IIs Violation of the 89th Article of War.

Specification* In that ***•*'********* '**.** * ; being in garrison at AAF Station 569, did, at AAF Station 569 and vicinity, on or about 24. and 25 June 1943, commit a riot, in that they, together with certain other soldiers whose names are unknown, did, wrongfully and unlawfully and in a violent and tumultuous 'manner assemble to disturb the- peace of AAF Station 569 and vicinity, and having so assembled did wrongfully and unlawfully and in a violent and tumultuous manner bear arms, disregard the authority of their superior officers, fire upon their superior Officers 'and members of the Military Police, U.S. Army, to the terror arid disturbance of the said Station and vicinity....	’

CHARGE III* Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specifications In that ****************** ; acting jointly- and in pursuance of a common 'iritent, did, at AAF Station 569 and vicinity, on 'or about 24 and 25 June 1943, in conjunction with certain other soldiers whose, names are unknown, wrongfully and unlawfully seize arms and ammunition by breaking into store rooms, bear arms, intentionally"discharge firearms in a reckless manner,'take and use U.S.' Government vehicles, disregard and ignore the lawful efforts of their superior officers to have them return to barracks and surrender their arms,

■ make inflammatory statements in the presence 'of other soldiers, bargain with their superior officers as to conditions under which they would, cease their mutinous conduct, halt and question their superior officers, fire upon their superior officers and members of the Military Police, U.S. Army, and damage and destroy U.S. property.

3.	Each of the accused pleaded not guilty, to the charges and specifications. Accused Purcelle T. Johnson, Triplett, James A. Williams, Alexander, Robinson, Bailey and Doakes were acquitted of all charges and

- 4 -

fjFIDEMTlAL
(63)

CONFIDEhTIAL

specifications. Accmsed Davis, Wade, Gallier, Reed, Hill, Walter Johnson* and Starks were found guilty of all charges and specifications. Evidence of two previous convictions wa3 introduced as to accused, Walter Johnsons one by summary court for violation of the 6lst Article of War for failure-to repair at fixed time and to properly appointed place for bed check and place of assembly at reveille and one by special court-martial for violation of the 96th Article of 7/ar for absence without leave on two occasions; and also there was introduced as to accused, Starks, evidence of three previous convictions by summary court for violation of the 6lst Article of War, for absence without leave for one and seven days respectively and for failure to repair at fixed time to the properly appointed place for bed check, and one previous conviction by special court-martial for violation of the 69th Article of War for breaking arrest. No evidence of previous conviction was introduced as to accused Davis, Wade, Gallier, Reed and Hill. Each of the said accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allo7/ances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor as follows:	Davis,A 15 years; Wade, 12 years;

Gallier, 13 years; Reed, 13 years; Hill, 15 years; Walter Johnson, 1A years and Starks, 15 years. The reviewing authority'approved each of the sentences but reduced the periods of confinement as follows:	Davis, to 10

years; Wade to seven years; Gallier to seven years; Reed to nine years;

Hill to 10 years; Walter Johnson to seven years and Starks to eight years, and designated Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beek- * man, New York as the place of confinement.

Accused Patterson, Ogletree, Cradic, Mack and James E. Johnson were each found not guilty of Charge I and its specifications but guilty of Charges II and III and their respective specifications. Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction by summary court of accused James E. Johnson for violation of the 65th Article of War for disobedience of order of non-commissioned officer to drill. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced as to accused Patterson, Ogletree, Cradic and Mack, Each of the said accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor as follows: Patterson, nine years; Ogletree, six years and six months; Cradic six years and six months; Mack six years and six months and James E. Johnson eight years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences but reduced the periods of confinement as follows: Patterson to seven years; Ogletree to three years; Cradic to two years;

Mack to three years and James E. Johnson to two years, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York as the place of confinement of accused Patterson, Ogletree and Mack, and 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England as the place of confinement of accused, Cradic and James E. Johnson.

Accused Edward R. Williams, Jr., Frelot, Saffo, Engram, Flagg, Kirksey,"Horton, Arbuckle, Avery, Kendall, Wise, Roach, Smith, Terrell, Grigg and Magee were each found not guilty of Charges I and II and of their respective specifications, but each was found guilty of Charge III

- 5 -

CONFiDtHTiAL
GGih'iiiL;; 11, ,t.

and its Specification. Evidence of previous convictions of accused was introduced as follows:	Flagg, one conviction by summary court for viola-

tion of 61st Article of War for absence'without leave; Kendall, three convictions, one by special court-martial for violation of 96th Article of war for wrongfully taking and using a Government beach wagon without authority, one by summary court for violation of 61st Article of War for absence without leave from guard duty, and one by summary court for violation of 6l3t Article of War for absence without leave for two days; Wise, two convictions, one by summary'court for violation of 65th Article of War for threatening to assault non-commissioned officer with loaded rifle, using threatening and insulting language to non-commissioned officer and disobedience to orders of non-commissioned officer, and one by summary court for violation of 61st Article of War for absence without leave for two days. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced as to accused Edward R. Williams, Jr., Frelot, Saffo, Engram, Kirksey, Horton, Arbuckle, Avery, Roach, Smith, Terrell, Grigg and Magee. Each of the said accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor as follows: Edward R. Williams, Jr., Frelot, Saffo, Engram, Flagg, Kirksey, Horton, Arbuckle, Avery, Roach, Smith, Terrell, Grigg and' Magee, each for three years; accused Kendall for five.years and.accused Wise for six years. The reviewing authority disapproved the sentence of accused Magee, and approved each of the other sentences but reduced the period of confinement as follows:	Edward	R. Williams, Jr., Frelot, Saffo,

Engram, Flagg, Kirksey, Horton, Arbuckle,'Roach, Smith, Terrell, Grigg and Wise, each to one year; Avery to two years and Kendall to three years. He designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, as the place of confinement of all of said accused except Kendall and he was ordered confined in Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York.

The reviewing authority forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50g.

4.. Bamber Bridge is a town situate about three miles south of Preston, Lancashire, England. On 24 June 1943, AAF Station 569, also known as Adam's Hall Camp, was located in a suburban area immediately adjacent to the north-east section of the town. The principal street of Bamber Bridge is Station Road. Its compass direction is approximately north and south, and it extends through a closely built area. Reference is made to CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al for a particular description and location of points and places in the town relevant to the instant case. Mounsey Road, which intersects Station Road at right angles commences at,-" the east line of Station Road and extends in an easterly direction approximately five hundred feet to the main entrance gate or entrance of AAF Station 569. A projection of said street in the camp is designated . ■ Access Road, and forms the principal street thereof. Family dwelling houses are constructed on both sides of Mounsey Road for it3 entire length. (Pros.Exs.1,2).

- 6 -
(65)

CONFIDENTIAL

On 24 June 1943, there was stationed at AAF Station 569, the 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.). 4 it consisted of two battalions whose units are shown as follows t

1513th Battalion	1515th Battalion
1933rd Company	1938th Company
1957th Company	1945th Company
1994th Company	•1949th Company
	1958th Company

The regiment, on 24-25 June 1943, was under command of Major George‘C. Heris, Quartermaster Corps, the Executive Officer of the regiment. These units were composed of colored soldiers under the command principally of white officers. The regular commanding’officer was absent (R34). The following officers of the regiment were immediately concerned with the events hereinafter related:

Officer	Duty	on	24 June 1943

R 54 Capt. Ellis M. Anderson,

R192 First Lieutenant Michael J,' Arcuri, •

R155 Second Lieutenant Jeroy'E. Bjerke,

R330 Captain Charles W. De Baun,

R315 First Lieutenant Burton M, Edwards,

R654 First Lieutenant George C. Foss,

R623 Captain Harold J. Gerardot, *

R220 First Lieutenant Cecil C.

Gibson,	4

R632 Second Lieutenant Edward F.

. Gormley,	*

R268 First Lieutenant Robert J.

. Euxtable,

R243 Major Artemus L. Latham, Jr.,

R808 Captain Richard Maguire

y

R418 Major Hugh J. Mattia,

RI36 Second Lieutenant Joseph H. McCarthy,

Commanding Officer 1515th Quartermaster Truck Battalion.

1994th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).

Supply Officer, 1958th Quartermaster Truck Compaq.

Medical Corps, on temporary duty with 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.).

1938th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.) Officer of Day at AAF Station 569 on 24 June 1943*

1945th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.)«

Commanding Officer 1933rd Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).

Commanding Officer, 1949th.Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).

Regimental Provost Marshal, 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.]).

1957th Quartermaster Truck Company ’ (Avn.).

Commander, 1513th Battalion, 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.). ;

Executive Officer, 1515th Battalion, 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.).

Adjutant, 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.).*

Commanding Officer, 1958th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).

-7-

CONFJDENTiAL
. cor -

(66)

R 43 Second Lieutenant Edwin B.‘ Jones,

R115 Captain Paxil-T. Milnamow,

R327 First Lieutenant David D. Ousset,

R206 First Lieutenant Hollis I. Ryland,

R174 First Lieutenant Marvin B. Saniter,

R 67&irst Lieutenant Gerald C. ) R526 Sylvester,	)

»

R260 First Lieutenant" Laurence N. Willis,

Chaplain, 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.).

Medical Corps, Regimental Surgeon, 1511th' Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.).

Special Service and Post Exchange Officer, 1957th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).

Motor and Supply Officer, 1933rd Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).

Commanding Officer, 1945th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.).

Adjutant, 1515th Battalion, 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.).

Executive & Operations Officer, 1515th Battalion, 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.),

5. On the evening of 24 June 1943 at about 10:30 p.m. in a residential section of Station Road in Bamber Bridge, four military policemen attempted to arrest and take into custody two colored soldiers, who were stationed at AAF Station 569 for alleged violation of certain standing orders. The arrest wa3 resisted not only by the two soldiers, but also by a group of colored soldiers who accompanied them and who. were also stationed at AAF Station 569. There arose a serious disturbance during the course of which two of the soldiers, the -accused Ogletree and one Private Lynn M. Adams (34151263), 1949th Quartermaster Truck Co.(Avn), 1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn.) were shot and wounded by the policemen'and two of the policemen were injured by rocks and bottle3 thrown by some of the soldiers (R53>54). Reference is made to CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al, supra, for a description of this episode.

At the conclusion of this street fighting Ogletree and Adams were assisted into camp by companions and were taken to the dispensary for treatment (R115,116,177,240,537-541).	After examination and-the

administration of "first aid" by the post medical officers, they were placed in an ambulance as "stretcher cases" and were transferred to the 110th Station Hospital at Warrington (Rn7,129,177,183,331,534-536).

Rifles or carbines were stored in various supply rooms in camp. "The rifles of the 1938th company were kept in a room at the extreme eastern wing of Building H. An rifles of the 1945th company were contained within a store room located in the westerly projecting wing of Building M. The 1958th company stored its rifles in a small room near the center of Building N. In Building C there were separate gun rooms for the 1933rd, 1957th and 1994th companies. The rifles of the 1949th company were in a room in Building J. (Pros.Ex.B). Each gun or supply room was in charge of a supply sergeant, all rifles and carbines of the companies were in the designated storage rooms prior to 10:30 p.m. on

- 8 -

C0NFIDENT1M-
CONFIDENTIAL

(67)

24 June 1943 and each room was locked (11102,207,222,246,611).

A soldier wa3 authorized to possess or use an arm only upon special order or authorization from higher authority (R52,182). On the night' of 24-25 June 1943 no permission had been given to the men to take and possess rifles or carbines (R52,188,195,218,222,248) and no order was issued authorizing any of them to enter the rifle storage rooms, except those charged with the duty of care and preservation of 'the ordnance (R52,182,195). No ammunition had been issued to the troops except to the camp guards, and the only rifles authorized to be in the possession of the men were those rifles issued to sentries - one for each post (R52, ; 415). It was (the duty of the sentry leaving his guard tour to deliver., his rifle and clip of cartridges to the sentry relieving him (R445,449, 450). Ammunition was stored in a special room in the guardhouse (R82, 83,415,450) and also at regimental headquarters (R86). No authority was given to enter the guardhouse ammunition room, except to a small number of officers and men whose duties required them to make such entry.

f

Except on special occasions hereinafter stated no one was authorized to take any of the automotive equipment from the camp (R248, 318).

The main entrance, to the camp leading from Mounsey Road was beared by a gate and there was a sentry posted at the gate (R325,326). Immediately adjacent to the gate on the right-hand side entering camp was a sentry-box or guard-hut.- The guardhouse (containing the ammunition storage room) was situate about fifty feet easterly from the guard hut on the right-hand si<Je of Access Road and about 25 feet back from the street line. On the left-hand side of Access Road immediately adjoining the front line of -the camp was p. parking space for 70 trucks (herein designated "motor pool") which was entered from Access Road (Fros.Ex.B).

•Within' a short period of time after the return to. camp of the two wounded men, Ogletree and Adams, information, as to their injuries and the melee wherein they were Involved apread rapidly among the soldiers (R133,190,235)*	Descriptions of the disorder in tovm became disparted;

and exaggerated. The soldiers became excited and a degree of hysteria swept through the post (R37,133,156,221,222,228,244,316). It is possible to infer from portions of -the evidence-that there were certain noncommissioned officers who were responsible for indirectly inciting and arousing the men (R138,139,141,146,161,179,185,189,261,267,271). There was almost a complete failure on their part to assert authority over their men, and very little or any effort was made by any of-them to prevent the disorders (R138,139,141,149,179,185,189,198) which continued into

the early morning hours of 25 June 1943.

' • ♦

Resultant upon distorted narrative31rapidly passed from soldier to soldier of the fight between the military police and the soldiers on Station Road ih the town, soldiers of' the units mentioned above left their barracks and collected in the various company areas. Rifle and carbine

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTS

(68)

storage or supply rooms were broken into and arms removed therefrom (R60, 85,138,180,189,192,195,200,272). . Soldiers with rifles and carbines made their appearance in and about the barracks and at separate points within the post (R38,47-49,56,58,65,70,78,79,82,129,Ul,1U,H7,157,178,188,181, 190,194,202,211,222,223). There is no evidence as-to the identity of the men who actually broke into the store rooms (including the regimental supply room) although it was clearly proved that-door panels were crushed in and locks broken and smaished (R60,85,$6,1£0,195,211,613).

,At approximately 11:00 p.m, a-group of soldiers collected about-the main entrance gate and in the proximity of the guardhouse. There were 125 to 200 men in this assemblage. About 25 of the men were-armed with rifles; some wore helmets and they-were indiscriminately clad in "Class A" uniforms and fatigues (R37,38,46,51,80,190,141,269,291,304).

The men were in a frenzy of excitement as they gathered at the gate.(37,.

38) fore-shadowing a spirit of active violence, but their conduct (developed) into an exhibition - of passive.disobedience (R38,42,48,72,102, 212,219). The conversation of the men pertained.to the shooting of -Ogletree and Adams and the grievance of the colored soldiers arising out of alleged unfair and persecutory treatment of them by the military police (R77,271-277),	There also arose among them disjointed-and desultory talk

concerning the social and political status, of the negro race in the United States and of‘certain discriminations practiced in the United Kingdom, against colored American soldiers alleged to have been inspired by white American-troops (R138,140,141,157).

Direct and positive orders were given by Major Heris to- junior officers and non-commissioned officers to assemble the men and march them away from the gate but the orders of the junior officers were ignored by the men and not obeyed (R38,42,48). Major Heris also gave orders in a loud voice addressed to the assembled group t° form into organizations-and return to the respective'company areas, but.this order also was not obeyed by the men (R48).

Following the breaking and entering of the gun or supply rooms certain soldiers, acting.without authority.or permission, took possession of government 2^- ton trucks and carry-alls,. Nine or ten of the vehicles came out of the motor pool on to Access Road (R38,48,49) immediately prior to Major Heris’ talk to the men. Major Heris stopped one of the carry-alls containing five soldiers at the gate and they acceded to his demands (R52, 79,80) not.to proceed further. A 2g- ton truck, containing six or seven soldiers armed with rifles, which was being driven in the rear of the carry-all swung around it and crashed through the closed gate. It was being driven at the rate of 25 or 30 miles per hour (R38,49,55,56,64,65,79,88,179, 208,316) and it and its passengers disappeared down Mounsey Road.. The identity of_ the men in the truck was never established during the course of the trial (R49,65,79,179,316).

Following this episode the crowd of soldiers was addressed by Major Heris (R47,58,80,268,270) who urged them to return to their barracks

-10-

CONFiDENTlAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(69)

and company areas and put down their guns informing them that neither.' Colonel Pitcher, the regimental commander, nor himself as second in command knew anything of the situation that had developed in Bamber Bridge. Major Heris further stated to them that until such time as the facts were known their officers wanted them to do nothing that would cause further trouble or in any wise jeopardize or embarrass the relations of the American soldiers with the civilians, and that they would have to believe their officers and allow them to discover the full facts before they proceeded any further (R47,305). Certain subordinate officers likewise repeated the "reouests" of Major Heri3 and attempted to get the men to return to their quarters. The soldiers did not voluntarily respond to this request, but Lieutenant Edwin B. Jones, a colored, officer, by pre-arrangement with Major Heris led the men back from the gate in "sheep-like1* fashion with the representation that he wanted all wha had seen the affair in town to report the facts to him (R43).	1

Simultaneously with the occurrences at the camp gate, information concerning the wounding of Ogletree and Wise reached other soldiers who had remained in and about their barracks. They also collected in company areas, in their recreation or common rooms and in the hall-ways of their barracks (R138,156,178,207,209,222,224,231,605,613,541,700,774).	Conver-

sation and discussion ensued between the men relative; to the fight in Bamber Eridge, and the wounding of the two soldiers. There were no overt acts of violence or disorder evidenced by these particular groups except their assembling and engaging in threatening conversations and the talcing by many of them without authority of rifle3 and carbines from the various company supply rooms (R56,64,138,194*222,228,244).	Some wore helmets and

carried gas masks (R194,6l3). Several of the accused were in these groups and' the only evidence of their misconduct at the time alleged is their unauthorized possession of arms under the above circumstances (R58,65,l38, 141,157,178,202,724,742,768). Company officers -were with these men, and after the passing of several hours, the men voluntarily went to bed. 1

/ / • •

There were other groups of soldiers within the camp, however, wha did engage in acts of violence and disorder. Government automotive equipment - trucks and carry-alls - were taken without -authority from the motor parks and driven about the camp with no proven purpose or object.

Such demonstrations were manifestly the result of loss of disciplinary control over the men (R245,542). In addition to the 2-g- ton truck which crashed through the camp gate, there were other vehicles driven from the camp without authority (R82,105,251,294,295,299,306,685).	Of the accused,

only Fill (R58,70) and Starks (295-7) are connected or implicated in this wrongful use of Government motor vehicles;at the time and place alleged.

From a time commencing about eleven q*clock p.m. 24th of June 1943 and continuing until about four 0*clock a.mi. 25th June 1943 the,

CONFIDENTIAL
(70)

CONFIDENTIAL

discharge of. fire-arms was heard in and about camp (R59,138,192,195, 244,245,694,708,747,752,753). Some of the shots were fired from within the camp area and Btray and ricochet bullets passed dangerously near officers and men (R117,134,137,143,332,613,6a-,659,665,751,286,287). At . intervals the sound of other shots coming fhom a considerable distance was also heard in camp (R59,180,209,210,244,618), With respect t6 the shooting from both within and without the camp there is not. even a scintilla of • evidence proving that; any of the .accused was responsible for same,

, Within the camp limits unidentified armed soldiers molested,and interferred with the free movements of officers. In several instances officers were halted and denied the right to proceed on their missions (H117,118,129,142,143,166,167,317,318,468,658) and both officers and enlisted men. were menaced with fire-arms (R117,134,137,223,332)• Again the proof fails to show the participation of any of the accused in such misdeeds.

Upon'telephonic request at about 11s00 p.m. 24 June 1943, a detachment of Military Police left- Preston and drove to Bamber Bridge.

The detachment was commanded' by Captain Herman A. Hech and consisted of 12 military policemen (R290,29l). The convoy was composed of an armored • scout-car and two quarter-ton trucks. On the second of the trucks a machine gun had been mounted' (R80,81,249,290-293) • . The military police contingent arrived at the main gate of the camp and Captain Hech conferred with Lieutenants Roller and Sylvester. The military policemen shone flashlights over the camp until such action was stopped by the commander-of the detachment. Captain Hech was requested by Major Heris to take hi3 men and vehicles out of sight of camp and stand by for emergency call. The police detachment drove south on Station Road in the direction of the main part of Bamber Bridge ;(R8l,ia,210,250,251,256,257,212,291).... News of the arrival-of the military police with the armored car and mounted machine-gun spread with electric rapidity through camp, and: it is clearly evident that the purpose of the visit, was magnified and distorted (R199,200,7.00). There were shouts of "The white MPs are here with machine guns" (Ria, 199,200,

2l5); "Here, come the MPs. let's get the rifles'1 (R272); "Get your rifles; they 'are at the gates with machine guns" (R635), and "They are coming in tanks" (R687). The excitement resultant upon news of the shooting of Ogletree and Adams had greatly‘subsided, but following the visit of the military police there was an obvious resurgence of excitement and hysteria (R81,199,200,247,272) and among certain groups there was an exhibition of mob psychology which denoted fear approaching a frenzy (R81,199,200,213).

Men ran through company streets and areas shouting and yelling. Rifle shots from within camp became numerous (hiring the next 10 minutes. The sound of motor vehicles being "warmed up" and motors "racing" filled the air, and several vehicles were driven from the motor parks into the camp roads and some of them were taken from camp (R59,60,80-82,90,101,199,200, .272,317,722). There were but few men with rifles'until the military police made their appearance at the camp gate, but immediately thereafter numerous armed soldiers were visible (R89,90),

Perhaps the most violent act occurring in the campwas committed

-12-

CONFIDENTIAL
(71)

by 15 to 25 soldiers, who, armed with rifles, rushed the rear door of the guardhouse and entered the room where 1600 rounds of .30 caliber ammunition was stored. a box of ammunition was broken open and cartridges were distributed to the men. Lieutenant Holler discovered the depredation and believed he took possession of all remaining ammunition. However, he overlooked a box. The soldiers returned. They were intercepted by Lieutenant Roller in the act of distributing this box of ammunition. One of the soldiers said to Lieutenant Roller: "I am sorry, Lieutenant, but we just had'to take things into our own hands." There was not a fragment of identification of the soldiers who participated in this indefensible violation of orders and discipline, and not even an inference that any of the accused were involved (R82,83,91,256,257).

6. Colored soldiers of an uncertain number, armed with rifles which had been secured without authority from the company supply rooms and carrying ammunition taken from the regimental supply room and the guardhouse ammunition room, escaped from camp during the darkness. Several were seen climbing over a rear fence of the camp (R601,641,643). These men together with those who rode in the 2-g- ton truck and other vehicles which left" AAF Station 569, formed marauding parties which for several hour3 wandered ab.out the town of- Bamber Bridge and committed acts,of violence. There were several separate incidents proved at the .trial.

Episode 1:	One	group	composed of about twenty men, armed1 with

rifles and clad in either "Class A" uniforms or fatigues reached a point in the southern part of Bamber Bridge near the intersection of the Chorley and Wigan highways. They fired several shots near the home of the civilian witness, Ashcroft, who went to the front d.®0r of his home, ’ One of them warned him: "Get inside there is going to be a war". Some of the men were hiding behind a stone wall while two crouched on the ground. These men went in the direction of Hob Inn and soon thereafter shooting was heard by Ashcroft (R110-112). Some time later another crowd of about 12 soldiers went over the wall which surrounds Ashcroft's place and also went down the road in the direction of Hob Inn. After 12:30 a.nw 25 June 1943 Ashcroft heard more shooting for about an hour (R112). Ashcroft became cautious and his wife nervous.. Neither of these groups of soldiers were identified and it is not proved that any. of the accused were with them (R112).

Episode 2:. The "Queens Hotel" is also located on Station Road in the southern end of Bamber Bridge near Hob Inn. At about 11:15 p.m. Arthur Laidler, the proprietor of the hotel heard shooting and upon going out of doors saw 20 or 30 colored soldiers armed with rifles and running down Chorley Road in the direction of Bamber Bridge. One soldier called to Laidler: "You better get inside, boss, there is going to be plenty of shooting". Another soldier shouted: ."Shoot the bugger."	Two of the men

discharged their rifles and there was spasmodic rifle fire in the distance until two or three a.m. One shot passed over the "Queens Hotel". Laidler and his wife were "very upset" (R107-111). None of these soldiers were

- 13 -
(72)

identified

CONFIDENTIAL

Episode 3:	Another group of six colored soldiers were seen about

11s00 p.m. on Station Road at a point opposite the police station which is located north of AAF Station 569 (R104). They were all armed. Two jeeps passed south on Station Road coming from the direction of Preston and they were fired on. Then three more jeeps passed south and they were also fired on. This group of negroes disappeared south on Station Road. Frequent rifle shots coining from Adams Hall Camp were heard by Sergeant Lawrence Constable, County Police Officer of Bamber Bridge who was at the police station, Many civilians came to the police station to seek protective -shelter and remained until 1:30 a.m. 25 June 194-3, because it wa3 unsafe to go'on to the public streets. These people were much disturbed (R103-105}113}295)•	,

Episode 4:	As Edward Brindle proceeded squth on Station Road from the

police station at about 2:40 a.m, 25 June 1943 he. saw four colored soldiers, with rifles, on .a wall near Midland Bank. As he entered the door of his house a bullet struck a half-yard behind him. His wife and daughter were hysterical(R114).	.

■Episode 5:	First Lieutenant Richard J. Dickinson, Detachment B,

234th Military Police Company was stationed at Preston on 24 June 1943. Pursuant tp a call he left Preston with a detachment of military policemen proceeding in three vehicles (R249). Arriving Bamber Bridge' a call was made at AAF Station 569 where Lieutenant Dickinson conferred with a major . (Major Heris) and a captain (Captain Anderson) and upon Major Heris' advice left the proximity of the camp (R38,250,255*256,257), drove into the main part of the town and parked his vehicles. After proceeding south on Station Road for a distance. Lieutenant Dickinson was informed that there were armed soldiers in one of the back streets. Accompanied by Private First Class Howard Miller and Private Lester, of the Military;Police Corps, he went down the back street endeavouring to find the soldiers. Three armed soldiers approached from the north. At that moment Miller saw a truck filled with armed soldiers coming from the opposite direction. Miller and Lester took cover behind a wall and Lieutenant Dickinson ran into a house. He stumbled in the door-way and fell as a bullet passed over his head (R251,25S). Lieutenant Dickinson and his men wore Military.Police brassards (R253,259). According to Miller, Lieutenant Dickinson, he and Lester were riding in the same jeep and two shots were directed at them as they halted (R258). The evidence fails to connect any of the accused with this incident- (R259).

Episode 6:	Connected with the foregoing episode is another one

involving Lieutenants Willis and Huxtable., Major Heris at about 11:00 p.m. ordered the two officers to leave the station, go into town, "round-up" the men and return them to .camp. They drove down Station Road in a jeep. About opposite the "Queens Hotel" public house three colored soldiers dressed in fatigues and armed with rifles stepped into the street. They shouted "halt" and as Lieutenant Willis stopped the car, commenced to shoot. Lieutenant Willis jumped out and ran around the corner into an air-raid warden's house. Lieutenant Huxtable took the wheel and backed the jeep around into a side
CONFIDENTIAL

(73)

street and sought refuge	in a	private home. Shots were	heard a few minutes

later that sounded as	if	they	struck the Military Police	vehicle (R262,263,

269,270). There was no identification of the three colored soldiers.

Episode 7: Warrant Officer Salim Ghazil, of 1513th Battalion,

1511th Quartermaster Truck Regiment (Avn) left Preston at lit00 p.m.

24- June 1943 driving a jeep with two colored soldiers as passengers.

At a point between the railway tracks and Hopwood Street in Bamber Bridge he was given an order	to	halt	and, when he did not obey,	three shots were .

fired. Ke stopped.	An	armed colored soldier being one	of a group of

three or' four soldiers approached the jeep and wanted to know who was in the car. Ghazil told the man sitting next to him to tell the soldier:

"It was Sergeant Ghazil". He was then informed that it was not safe to proceed, but Ghazil drove towards the camp. The armed men rode on the hood and in the back of the car, but when he stopped they dismounted and disappeared. They were not identified (R282-284).	•.	■	>

Episode 8:	Private	First	Class	Edward Smith, a member of the .

234th Military Police Company left Preston about 11:00 p.m. 24 June 1943, driving a Government half-ton Dodge truck. When he re'ached a point between Hopwood and Mounsey streets in Bamber Bridge he heard two shots. Something hit him in the face and the next day two pieces of brass were removed from the left side of his face. Pros.Ex.3 and Pros,Ex.4 are photographs of the truck driven by Smith on this occasion. Sixteen bullet holes are shown in the left front door of the truck and the evidence is clear that they did not exist prior to this incident. The identity of the persons responsible for this shooting was not shown (R286-290).

Episode 9:	Lieutenant	Ousset was Special Services and Post

Exchange Officer at AAF Station #569 on 24 June 1943. During the evening of that day he had been absent from the camp and was returning in a c.ommand can. At about 11:00 p.m. as he turned from Station Road into Llounsey Street he heard a couple of shots. A truck stood cross-wise in the street, and Lieutenant Ousset stopped and parked his car. Some one shouted: "Cut the lights off and the motor". He complied, waited about five minutes and then attempted to drive around the truck. There were further shots and he stopped One shot went through the wind-shield of his car and’ he then received three bullets in his left leg and two in his right leg as he sat in the car. When the shooting ceased a voice called: "Come'out with your hands up". ’ Lieutenant Ousset struggled out of the car and went to the rear of it. There were about 30 men about.~ Some one said: "This'is Lieutenant Ousset". Khen the officer said he was wounded, a soldier came to him, entered the car and took the wheel.	A second soldier assisted Lieutenant Ousset into the vehicle

■They went through the camp gate with permission of the guard, driving first to the officers* quarters ana then to the dispensary(R328-330).	The wounded

man was examined, dressingswere applied and at about 1:45 a.m. 25 June 1943

he was placed in an. ambulance and taken to the 110th General Hospital at

Warrington (R84,332,333). A Red Cross flag was placed on the ambulance in

order to afford protection (R335). The ambulance was stopped in camp by

several armed men as it turned into Access Road, but after explanations were

- 15 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(74)

CONFIDENTIAL

given it was allowed to proceed (R85,334)• None of the accused except Doakes (who was acquitted) were connected with this incident, and Doakes was apparently the soldier who entered Lieutenant Ousset's car-and drove him to the dispensary (R332,335).

Episode 10:	The	ambulance	which	carried Ogletree-and Adams to

the 110th General Hospital-at Warrington returned to camp early on the morning of 25 June 1943.- When it reached within about 15 yards of the main gate it was challenged and'stopped by a group of about 40 soldiers wearing fatigues and gas-masks and bearing arms. The occupants (Captain Milnanow, Sergeant Walker, Sergeant Bentley and Private Knox) obeyed an order to turn out the lights and dismount. There were wild curses.

Anger and fear were evidenced by the soldiers. Upon giving explanations, the occupants of the ambulance'were allowed to proceed (R117,130,134).

None of the accused were identified'as being in this group of soldiers.

Sergeant-Constable, the County Police Officer, made a survey of damages suffered by individual civilian house-holders as a result of the'

various disturbances in' the town and the same showed:

* • . •

. House at #246 Station Road - bullet penetrated ■ frame work of door;

House at corner of Mounsey Street and Station __ . Road - bullets penetrated upper window 10 feet above floor with breakage of glass and damage to plaster frieze in room;

House at #2 Jackson Street (Corner of Mounsey’

Street)- Three bullet holes in window seven feet from floor and one hole within foot from floor,

(R105-106).

7.	It is necessary to consider certain motions made by the defense and rulings on evidentiary questions during the course of the trial:

' (a). A motion for continuance was'made on behalf of accused Ogletree and Wise which was denied (Rll-14). The motion was made after -arraignment but before pleas were received which was proper (MCM,, 1928, par.52cj, p.4l)» The bases of the motions were (l) that Captain Thomas L. Ho£an, individual counsel for the two named accused, had been'retained less than three days prior to commencement of•the trial'on 3 Sept 1943,

• although the charges had been served on said accused on 24 August 1943, and (2) that the two accused had been tried and convicted on charges which would, sustain a plea of former jeopardy in the instant, case.:	Insufficient

time to enable counsel to prepare for trial is a ground for a continuance. However, the refusal of the court to grant a continuance does not nullify the'trial, although it may be grounds for a rehearing (MCM., 1928, par,52^, pp.40-41).	The two accused were served with the charges ten days prior to

trial. The regularly appointed defense counsel and his assistants were engaged in the preparation of the defense during this period and .their services were available to these accused. The selection by the two accused of Captain Hogan as individual counsel occurred a week after they were informed of the nature of the charges against tht m and of their prospective

16 -
CONFIDENTIAL

(75)

trial. The granting or denying of a motion for continuance is within the sound judicial’ discretion of the court and its action in denying a motion for continuance will not be disturbed upon appellate review in the absence of a showing of abuse of that discretion (CM 126974 (1919), CM 135095 (1919), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, par,377, p.187).

The record of trial reveals that the two accused were defended with skill and diligence and such effort resulted in their acquittal of the serious charge of mutiny. Under the circumstances the Board of Review is unable to discover anything arbitrary or capricious on the part of the court in denying the notion for continuance on ther ground that counsel did not have stifficlent time to. prepare .for trial. There was a proper exercise of its judicial discretion (CM 228507.(1943), Bui.

JAG., Lay 1943, Vol.II, Ho.5, par.377, p.183).

The further contention of the two accused was that they had been tried and convicted of offenses in which “the sentences had not been acted on by the reviewing authorities on date of commencement of trial of the instant case, and that therefore they were entitled to a continuance until such time as the sentences in the first case became final, in order to enable them to assert such sentence in the instant case in support of pleas of former jeopardy. By stipulation', part of the charge and specifications in the first case was read into the record. A person cannot without his consent be tried a second time for the same offense;

"*** but no proceeding in which an accused has been found guilty by a court-martial upon any charge or specification shall be held to be a trial *** until the reviewing *** authority shall have taken final action upon the case." (AW 40; L5CM 1928., par.68,

P-53)-	‘

The rule of law governing this situation is stated as follows;

"Where accused has been convicted of a certain offense and an appeal has been taken, a trial against him, under the same statute, on the same state'of facts, and on the ground of the case already pending in the appellate court, -and involving the same questions, should be continued until the determination of the former case in the appellate court. However, the mere fact that accused has been convicted of another offense and'is at the time'awaiting sentence or determination of an appeal is not ground for a continuance on a charge of an entirely different offense." (22 CJS., sec.501d, p.797).

- 17 -

CONFIDENTIAL
wfidential

"Accused, pending his appeal from a » conviction'of violating a statute, is not entitled to a stay of proceedings against'-him on other charges for violations of the same statute (State v. Rose, 50 So.

520, 1241a. 526)". (22 CJS., sec.501£, footnote 85, p.797).

The former case to which individual defense.counsel made reference in his motion for continuance‘and with respect to which part of the charges and specifications were placed in evidence is CIS ETO 804, Ogletree, Nunn, Adam3 and Wise decided by the Board of Review and approved by the Assistant Judge Advocate General on 6 November 1943. While'it is true that Ogletree and Wise (who were two of the accused in the former case) were in both the former and in the instant case charged with violation of Articles of War 89 and 96, a comparison of the specifications laid under said Articles of War in the former case with the specifications laid under the same articles in the instant case, reveals without doubt that the specifications involved in the instant case describes acts of misconduct separate and distinct from the offenses alleged’in the former case. A plea of former jeopardy could not have been sustained. As a consequence the hocused were not entitled for the reason stated to a stay of proceedings in the instant case. The court committed no error in denying the motion for continuance.

(b) On behalf of accused Roach and James A. Williams, a motion for severance and separate trials, was made after arraignment and before receiving their pleas. The motion was denied (R14-16). The grounds for the motion were? (l) prejudice accruing to the rights of the two movants because of evidence which would be introduced against the other accused and (2) that the defense of the other accused would be prejudicial to the rights of the movants.

A similar motion made on behalf of accused Doakes, Patterson and Walter Johnson, was denied.. The grounds for the motion were the same as in the Roach and Williams motion (R15-17).

Likewise a motion for severance was made on behalf of accused Ogletree and Wise, which was denied. This motion was also on the grounds stated in the Roach and Williams motion (R18-19). Thereafter the motion was renewed on the ground that the defense intended to Cali co-accused as defense witnesses., . The motion was also denied (R238).

The regularly appointed defense counsel, representing 28 of the accused other than the seven represented by individual counsel, also moved for separate trials for his clients on the following basis:	The accused

were members of the following 'groups: 'six were members of the -1958th company, eight were members of the 1945th company, six were members of the 1949th company, ten were members of the 1933rd company and five were members of the 1994th company. , The motion proposed severance of trials in such manner that no member of a given company should be tried jointly with another

- 18 -
CONFIDENTIAL

(77)

member of the same company. The reason for such procedure was asserted to be the probability of an accused calling as his witnesses co-accused who were members of his own company and the severances were required so as to compel such co-accused to become witnesses; In further explanation of the motion the court's attention was invited to the fact that each company lived in its own set of barracks on the 24 June 194-3 and each company' 'barracks were separated from those of other companies by a considerable distance (Pros.Ex.l).	Cpnsequently in many cases the most reliable

and valuable witnesses for an accused would be the.feU.ow members of his company. The motion was denied (R19-21).	.

V/ith respect to severance of trials of accused jointly charged with an offense the Manual for Courts-Martial directs*

•i x x x x k x a motion to sever is a potion by one of two or more joint accused to be tried separately, from the other or others., It will regularly be made at the arraignment.

The motion should be granted if good cause is shown; but. in cases where the essence of the offense is combination between the parties - conspiracy, for instance - the court may properly be more exacting than in other cases with respect to the question whether the facts shown in support of the motion constitute a good cause. The. more common grounds of this motion are that the mover desires to avail himself on his trial of the testimony .of one or more of his coaccused, or of the testimony of the wife of one; or that a . defense of the other accused is antagonistic to his own; or that the evidence as to them will in some manner prejudice his defense. (Winthrop) ". (L3CM 1923, par.

71b, p.55).

The foregoing quotation should be considered against the background of judicial principles applicable, in connection with motions for severance of trials of jointly charged accused.

- 19 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

"The question *** is this, whether two or more persons, jointly charged in the sane indictment with a capital offense, have a right, by the laws of the country, to be tried severally, separately and apart, the counsel for the United States objecting thereto, or whether it is a matter to be allowed in the discretion of the court, x*»*. In our opinion, it is a matter of sound discretion, to be exercised by the court with all due regard and .tenderness to prisoners, according to the known humanity of our criminal jurisprudence," (United States v, Marchant & Colson, 12 Wheat,'480-435; 6 L.Ed., 700,702).

"These two defendants moved that they be tried separately from Hillard F, Ball* because he had been previously acquitted; because the government relied on his acts and declarations made after' the killing and not in their presence or hearing; and because he was ja material witness in their behalf. , But the question whether defendants jointly indicted should be tried together or separately was a question resting in the sound discretion of the court below. ***. It does not appear that there was any abuse of that discretion in ordering the three defendants to be tried together ***.« (Ball,Ball and Boutwell v. United States, 163 U.S. 662,672; 41 L.Ed., 300,303).

"That it was within the discretion of the court to order the defendants to be tried together there can be no question, and the practice is too well established to require further consideration." (S^ilson v. United States, 250 U.S. 583, 585-586, 63 L.Ed., . .1154,1156).

"Unless such privilege is conferred by statute or court rule *** defendants jointly indicted , are not entitled to a severance or separate trials as a matter of right. Both at- common law and tinder statutes declaratory thereof, the grant or denial of a severance or a separate trial to defendants jointly indicted

- 20

OONflDENTiAL
CONflDENTlAl

'	V	Ifj

rests in the discretion of the trial

court, which,, in the absence of good cause therefor, may in the exercise . of its discretion properly refuse separate trials, and whose grant or denial of a separate trial .or severance will be upheld in the absence of an abuse of discretion clearly , shown* The court should, however, in passing on an application for a severance exercise a sound discretion, so as to prevent injustice and should not proceed arbitrarily or capriciously, Tffhat constitutes an abuse of discretion in denying severance or separate trials necessarily depends largely on the whole situation as revealed in each particular case, by the circumstances as disclosed at the tiros the application for severance was made *♦*,*

(23 CJS., sec.933a, pp,217-218),

The accused were charged jointly with joining in a mutiny, rioting and wrongfully possessing and using .government property. Each offense charged, was of the nature which may be committed by two or more persons. Therefore a joint charge, was entirely proper. The record of trial reveals that care and caution were exercised both by the law member and trial judge advocate in the presentation and receiving of the statements of certain accused. The court was strictly enjoined that a statement should be considered only as evidence against the accused making same (R39&-397)* (Johnson v. United States, 82 Fed,(2nd) 500, Certiorari denied 29,8 U.S. 688, 80 L.Ed, li|07). The primary ground of the motions, vizi the necessity of securing testimony o,f certain co-accused becomes idle in the face of the fact that twenty-three of the thirty-five accused appeared as witnesses and each testified at length and was subjected to plenary cross-examination. Considering the record of tjrial. as a whole and the peculiar nature of the offenses charged the Board of Review concludes that the court did not proceed arbitrarily or capriciously in denying the several motions for separate trials, (Olmstead v. United States, 19 Fed.(2nd) 842, 53 ALR.1472j Certiorari denied 275 U.S. 557, 72 L,Ed.424)» It exercised a sound judicial discretion and its decisions will not be disturbed on appellate review (CnI 144367 (1921)j Dig,

Ops. JAG,, 1912-1940, .par.395 (49)» J>.234f Annotation I3I ALR, sec.VI, p.926j United States v. Olmstead, supra),

(c) On behalf of each and all accused a motion was made to strike Charges II and III and their respective specifications for the reason that they were duplications of Charge I and its specifications and therefore multifarious (R21,22). The motion was denied (R26), The argument of the

- 21 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(30)

defense vas premised upon the principle of pleading that i

♦	w	*

"One transaction, or what is substantially one transaction, should not be made the basis for an unreasonable multiplication of charges against one . jpersop. **,*. However* there are times when sufficient doubt as , to tli®, facta or law exists to warrant making one transaction the basis for. charging two or more offenses." (MCM 1928, par.

27, p.17).

An analysis of the charges against accused shows that four distinct offensee are allegedt

-	*	<	j	-	.

,	Charge	X - Violation of the 66th Article of War. , .	»'

Specification It Joining in a mutiny against , the military authority of,the commanding officer and other officers, of AAF Station #569 and vicinity.

Specification 2i Joining in.a mutiny, against , the military authority of the military

police at AAF Station #569* and vicinity.

Charge H - Violation of the 89th Article of War. .

Specification!. , Commission of. riot at AAF Station #569 end vicinity.

Charge III - Violation, of the 96th Article of War

Specification! Wrongful and unlawful seizure and damage of government property and riotous and disorderly conductat AAF Station #569 and vicinity. •

Four separate and distinct offenses are therefore joined. While such form of pleading is condemned by a majority of civil courts, before military courts such practice is permissible and has long been recognised.

«****«^ Unlike the ordinary criminal procedure, where but one indictment, setting forth (in one or more counts) a single offence or connected criminal transaction, is, in general brought to trial at one time, the military usage and procedure permits of an indefinite number of.offences being charged and adjudicated together, in one and the same proceeding. And, with a view

- 22 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(81)

to the summary and final action so important in military cases.-wherever an officer or soldier hah been appa-1 rently guilty of several or many' offencesI whether of a similar character or distinct in their nature,

’ charges and specifications covering them all, should, if practicable, be preferred together and together brought to trial; separate sets of charges, where they exist, being consolidated, •***, (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint,

P.152).

Joining in a mutiny and committing a riot are separate and distinct offenses, A mutiny in military law is a revolt by two or more soldiers with or without armed resistance aghinst the authority of their commanding officers (5'C.J., sec.l68, p.352, footnote 2; CM 116735, CM 122535 (I918), Dig, Ops. J.A.G, 1912-1940* par*424 p,288), and the offense of joining in a mutiny requires the performance of*an*overt act of insubordination by the person accused (MCM,, I928, par,136b, p,151). Committing a riot is the joining in a tumultuous disturbance of the peace by three.or more persons acting with a common intent either in executing a lawful private enterprise ~ in a violent and turbulent manner to the terror of the people or in executing an unlawful enterprise in a violent and turbulent manner (54 C.J,, sec.l, p„828j MCM,, 1928, par,147c. pp,l6l,l62). Proof of the facts constituting the offense alleged under Charge III and'its Specification (violation of 96th Article of War) would not in and of themselves, prove either the charge . of joining in a mutiny or committing a riot, ' The latter offenses obviously contain elements not embraced in the charge under the general article, and conviction of the commission of both or either of said offenses would not be inconsistent with a finding of not guilty under the 98th Article of War,

The accused may be found guilty of all the offenses charged without being placed in jeopardy for the same offense (CM 230222 (1943)* BUL.T JAG. .March 1943. Vol.il, N0.3, par,395(44). P.96),

a

Where the conduct of accused‘as alleged in a Specification constitutes the violation of more than one article of war, the pleader may lay the same under separate charges without subjectlng the pleading to the criticism of multifariousness or duplicity. In fact, such practice is dictated by common prudence,

■In military cases where the offence falls apparently equally within the pUrvieW of two or more articles of < war, or where the legal character * of the act of the accused cannot be precisely known or defined till developed by the proof, it is not

- 23 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(82)

unfrequent in cases of'importance to state the accusation under two or more Charges ***■• (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint,

P«H3)«

In the instant case the charges were drafted in accordance with this practice and are therefore free from the defects relied upon by defense counsel. In any event the granting or denying of the motion was a matter wholly with the judicial discretion of the‘court and ihe Board of Review can find in the denial of the motion by the court no such arbitrary action as would justify it in disturbing the court's ruling (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.251)«

.*	(d)’On behalf of each hnd ‘all 'accused motions were made sep-

arately to strike Specifications 1 and 2 of Charge I and also the respective specifications of Charges II and III on the ground that "the allegations contained therein do not specifically allege the time, place and specific acts as to each accused so as to sufficiently advise each accused of the offense that is charged against them* (R26). In support of this motion it was argued by defense counsel that accused were charged "with numerous acts over a period of two days and a large vicinity in the area of Station 5&9 which is certainly; unfair, for these defendants to have to meet a blanket allegation ih a trial where there are 35 different defendants involved*(R26).	‘	*’	*	*

It is exceedingly doubtful that the motions to!strike the specifications wejfc procedurally proper inasmuch as their bases were alleged defects in foxm of the specificatidns rather'than defects in substance (Winthrop's Military Law and Itecedents, Reprint, p,252), However, it will be assumed that the'motion^ performed'the functidns of a motion to make more definite and.certain, or'df a Special'demdrrer (were Such pleadings known in courts-1 martial practice) (31 C.J., seo.404, pp.819,820),

With respect to the specifications of Charges I and II the motions are premised on the assumption that it is necessary to allege as to each accused his particular conduct which constitutes joining in a mutiny (Charge I) and committing a riot (Charge H)« £>uch a contention entirely ignores' the true nature of the offenses, '	1

a	.	.	:	'	•	.	*	....

The gravamen of the offense of joining in a mutiny isi (1) there was a mutiny at.a specific time and place begun against constituted authority and (2) accused joined i'n it. Both specifications of Charge I are complete in this regard. The parts of the two specifications which set forth the means and methods pursued by the accused in "joining in the mutiny" are but descriptive and taken alone would not have constituted a mutiny (CM 125432 (1919)* Dig.Ops.JAG,, 1912-1940, sec.424* pp,288,289), Each accused was entitled to be informed as to where, when and against whom there was a mutiny and that he was charged with having'joined in it. With such information he could prepare his defense or if necessity arose identify

-24-

GONFIPEMTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(83)

the offense as a basis for a plea of former jeopardy. Beyond that he was not entitled to be informed. Allegations describing generally the conduct of:the several accused renders the charge of joining in a mutiny complete and intelligible, but allegations particularizing the actions of each accused are not necessary and are not part of the gravamen of the charge.	'

* ♦

I	I	.

The constituent elements of the offense of rioting arej (1) an unlawful assembly consisting of three or more persons; (2) an intent mutually to assist against lawful authority and (3) acts of violence (MCM., 1928, par.146^1 5k C.J., aec.3» P«83°l 2 Wharton's Criminal Law -12th Edition - sec.1869). A specification alleging-these three elements states facts constituting the offense. Allegations1 describing the acts of violence committed are essential averments inasmuch as it is from them that terror of the populace is inferred, but they may be general allegations (2 Wharton's Criminal Law - 12th Edition - sec.1869, p.2199). It -is unnecessary to set forth the particularized acts of each rioter and if the same are contained therein they are- descriptive merely (Commonwealth

of Massachusetts v.- irishman1. Mass.1____*, 126. NE 828-,'9 ALR. 549 )• The

Specification of Charge II meets all of these requirements and fully

informed accused as to the exact nature of the charge against them.

*■

As directed to Charge III and its Specification the motions are wholly devoid of merit. The accused are charged jointly with wrongfully and illegally seizing arms and ammunition, wrongfully and illegally taking and using Government vehicles, damaging and destroying Government property and other aots of violence and disorder constituting serious breaches of discipline and of the peace. ! These allegations clearly charge an offense under the 96th Article of War (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, p.732)» With respect to the form of allegations charging a joint offense there is no requirement that averments shall be included alleging that the-accused acted severally, nor -

■After a joint charge, counts containing individual1 charges- need not be inserted, and if inserted, they may be rejected as . surplusage to prevent the indictment from being regarded as containing a misjoinder.

***• If the offense may have been committ«» ed by one of defendants singly, it is held that it.is not necessary to allege which of them cosmitted the- actual criminal act, that the correctness of the allegation, if made, is not material1, and that the particular acts constituting the charge against each defendant need not be sev--erally set out ***,• (31 C.J., sec.287,

P.737-738).

It is manifest that the court committed no error in denying the motions.

- 25 -

CONFIDESTiAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(84)

(e)	Major Herls referred to his typewritten log or record of occurrences at camp on the night of 24-25 June 1943 to refresh his memory (R38*39)» Defense objected to its use* In his own hand-writing he had made extended notes and same were reduced to typewritten form by his clerk* The typewritten copy was proof read and verified by him* The use of the log for the purpose indicated was proper* The objection was properly 'overruled (CM ETO 492* Lewis; CM ETO 739«»Maxwell: CM-ETO 765, Claros).

>

. (f) Defense objected to Capt. Anderson naming accused Hill and Mack* as two of the soldiers he saw dismount from the carry-all after the truck had crashed the gate on evening of 24 June 1943 because witness admitted he did not -know their names at that time but learned them subsequently* However* Captain Anderson positively identified the two accused as soldiers he had seen leave the carry-all (B55~57)» The objection was without merit (20 Am*Jur.Evidence, sec*880, p*740f 1 Wharton's Criminal Evidence, seo*265, p*327),	.	*	.

'	*.	1

(g)	Objections were made by the defense to Captain Milnamow repeating certain statements made to him by Davis and Patterson respectively, during the course of the evening and while the disorders about camp continued* Witness asked Davis what he thought he (Davis) would gain by all of the disturbance* Davis replied that 14 would bring the incident to1 the attention of higher authority; that his soldiers were not getting a fair break and that while in town on a pass he was stopped six or eigit times by military police and required to show his pass and that he did not like that (H119tl20)* Patterson stated to the witness that he was primarily interested in knowing whether any of his men had been killed, and if they were he was going to get revenge and do something about it, but since the men were going to be all right he was not much interested (R120)* The statements made by the two named accused were clearly admissible in evidence as admissions against interest provided they were relevant to any. issue in the case (20 Am. Jhr .Evidence,1 sec*545» P*46l| 31 CJS*1, sec,276, p.d.028).

Both accused were charged with joining in a mutiny and rioting (Charge I and II)* Davis and Patterson were non-commissioned officers. The fact that they were sympathetic to the violence and disorder is relevant to the paramount question of their actual participation in the mutiny and rioting* -Evidence as to the mental attitude of an accused towards a given incident or situation is admissible (20 Am*JUr.Evidence, sec.585, p.491« Cfi Mutual Life Insurance Company v* Hillmon, 145 U.S. 285, 36 L. Ed*, 706)* The court properly overruled the objection, • * 1	♦	>	,

(h)	Lieutenant Bjerks used for purpose of refreshing his memory prior written statements prepared and written by him for officers of the Inspector General's and Provost Marshal General's Department (B158,159)«

Such use of said statements is unobjectionable (See (e) of this paragraph, supra)*

....... . '

(1)	Witnesses for the prosecution while awaiting their call to the witness stand remained in the lounge room adjoining the court room* On . the sixth day of trial Defense Counsel asserted that'while accused were in

- 26 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(85)

an adjacent yard during periods when court was closed or in recess, they were, seen throu^i a window of the lounge by certain of the witnesses who were awaiting their calls to testify and that certain other persons in the lounge had identified particular accused for .the benefit of these prospective witnesses (R278)* , Defense counsel further asserted that, the ri^its of accused had been prejudiced by this conduct, and asked that the practice cease* He did not n»ve for a mis-trial (R279), The president directed the trial judge .advocate /to prevent a reoccurence of such incidents and stated that accused would be given the opportunity of recalling for examination such prior witnesses a3 they believed had been influenced on the question of identity by the means stated (R280)* The claim of prejudice was based on such incidents as were observed personally by defense counsel and no other evidence was offered in proof of same.

One of the critical issues in the case was the identification of the soldiers who were participants in the disorder and violence* Consequently, evidence of the coaching of witnesses so as to assist them to effect identification would be admissible as bearing on the issue of the credibility of these coached witnesses (70 C.J., sec«9l6, p,76o). The record of trial reveals the fact that Captain Anderson (R413)• and Lieutenant Hyland (R73°*731*732» 734) were witnesses for the defence and were exemjined at length as to identifications theretofore made by them. Captain Milnamow (R477)* Lieutenant Sylvester (R526), Captain Gerardot (R623), Lieutenant Arcurl (R629), Lieutenant Ryland (R725), Lieutenant Huxtable (R7&4) 811 <1 Lieutenant Saniter (R766) re-appeared on the stand as defense witnesses and there was no examination of them as to the alleged "coaching" incidents* When Lieutenant Huxtable (R281) was examined as a prosecution’s witness he denied any of the accused had been pointed out.to him. ( Major Heris, Lieutenant Gibson and Major Mattia, as defense witnesses, denied they had "pointed out* any of accused (R415*417*419)•

The "coaching" of witnesses in the manner asserted by defense counsel is not to be condoned. However, the action of the president in directing the trial judge advocate to take action which would prevent a reoccurrence of sane, and the.oppc^rtunity,afforded the defense to cross# examine all of prosecution’s witnesses who had previously testified on the question of identity, removed any prejudice to rights of accused which may have accrued* The subsequent conduct of the defense fully supports this conclusion*

(j)	The objections (R288,289) to the admission in evidence of Pros.Ex.3 and Pros.Rx*4 (photographs of bullet riven truck) were without foundation* The requirements^of proof of authenticity and genuineness were fully met (MCM,, 1928, sec.ll8ib, p.122)*

(k)	The written statements of James E« Johnson, Rros.Ex.6 (R342-346, 351-352)* Edward R. Williams, Pros*Ex*7 (R354-356), Frelot, Eros.Ex.8 (356-365), Roach, Eros.Ex.9 (R364-371). Smith,' Eros.Ex.10 (R371-375) and

- 27 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Wm. O. Starks* Pros.Ex.il (R38O-386) were admitted in evidence after vigorous objection in each instance by ,the defense on 4he grounds that as to each acqused they,were not yolunt^ryj that the person securing, the statements had secured an admission from the respective accused as to their identity and serial number without prior warning of their right to remain silent (aQd the penally foi^ speaking) and that they irere obtained ujjder false pretenses. Each of the statements are admissions and not,confession^. .

•A confession is an admission of the criminal act itself, not an admission of a fact or circumstance ■ from vidch guilt may be inferred.* (20 Am.Jur.

Evidence, bec.478, p.417).

"An admission has been defined as a statement of a party inconsistent with his claim in nn action,and amounting therefore to proof against (20 Am.Jur.Evidence,sec.543»P»460).

’ >

•An admission merely admits some fact which connects or tends to connect fhe defendant with the offense but not with all the t elements of the crime." (State vi Masato Karumai, 126 Pac.(2nd),

1047,1052).

f 1 )	M	i	k	V

"A confession is defined as an acknowledgment of guilt of the crime charged or of the facts which constitute the crimej but it is an admission and not a confession if the facts acknowledged raise an inference of guilt only when considered with other facts." (Underhill's Criminal Evidence, sec.265, PP«5°7*-508).

While each of "the statements admit incriminating facts none of them admit legal guilt (CM 141755 (1920), Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, sec.395 (10), p.2Q5l CM ETO 292 Mickles). They were therefore admissible in evidence regardless of their voluntary nature(MCM., I928, par.114b, p.H7j CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al). Although both Askew and Keegan, the operatives of the Criminal Investigation Division of the Provost Marshal General's Office were not over scrupulous in their explanations of their purposes

- 28 -
(87)

CONFIDENTIAL

in interviewing accused and exhibited a degree of sharp practice in theirmethods in obtaining the statements (R345»351*353»384»370,372,373)j such facts alone would not bar their admission in evidence (Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438* 72 L, Ed., 944, 951| McIntosh v.

State of Nebraska, 180 N.W. 573, 12 ALE. 798,804). The statements were properly admitted.

(l)	Sergeant Michael P. Keegan of the Criminal Investigation Division, Provost Marshal General's Office, testified that accused Bernard Terrell orally admitted that he obtained his own rifle from the supply room and asserted he had returned it. He refused to sign a statement (R386,394), .* Keegan*informed this accused that he was primarily concerned with recovering the rifles, but gave him the regular warning under the 24th Article of War as to his rights to remain silent. Defense's objection to the testimony was without merit (See par.Tk, supra).

(m)	Accused Purcelle T. Johnson testified that he had talked to lieutenant Ryland while-he (Johnson)-was in the guardhouse about two months subsequent to the date of the alleged offenses. Upon objection of prosecution he was prevented from repeating Lieutenant Ryland's statements to him at that time (R662). The ruling was correct, as such evidence would have been hearsay. Considered as an attempt to impeach prior testimony of Lieutenant Ryland, no proper foundation had been laid in his cross-examination (MCM., 1928, par,124b, p.133).

(n)	Upon request of the trial judge advocate, the law member instructed the court that each written and oral statement of certain accused (James E« Johnson, Jones R. Williams, -Edward R. Williams, Prelot, Roach, Smith, Terrell and Starks) which had been admitted in evidence was evidence only against the' accused making the statement and must not be considered as evidence against any other of the accused (R396»397), This was proper practice in this case. The statements themselves were devoid of incrimination of other accused and were simple in fozm. They could not possible form a "matrix of hearsay evidence" as was condemned by the Board of Review in CM ETO 134, Stump et al. (Cfi Anderson et al v. United States, 63 Sup.Ct.Rep. 599,802). *In instances where the statements are simple or names of co-accused either do not appear or are deleted, the practice followed in this instance fully protects the rights of accused (CM ETO 804, Qgletree et al{ Johnson v. United States, supra).

8.	Defense counsel and individual counsel at the conclusion of prosecution's case in chief moved for findings of not guilty (R397.402, 403,405,407,409), The motions were not renewed at the conclusion of the case. Any errors committed in denying the motions were therefore waived because of the' failure of counsel to renew the motions and will not be ’

considered on appellate review '(CM ETO 5^4, Seville).

» - " • ‘ *1

' 9« After their rights had been fully explained to them the following accused! elected *to remain ;silent t Gallie*, Hill, Waite* Johnson, Mack,’

- 29 -

CQNFlDtNUAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(88)

Starks, Terrell, Edward R. Williams, Jr.,‘ and James E, Johnson (R834}',

10, The accused, Edward R. Williams, Jr,, Frelot, Saffo, Engram, Flagg, Kirksey,Horton,Arbuckle .Avery.Kendall.Wise .Roach.Smith.Terrell, and Grigg were found not guilty of Charges I and II and their respective specifications, but guilty of Charge III and its Specification,

i	1	i

£he specific, particularized evidence against each of said ’ accused and evidence presentea^heir respective defenses sunmarizes as follows t

» • | ■ « 1 ♦ Prosecution's Evidence.	Defense's Evidence.

t

-	-	- EDWAH) R. WUXLfiiS

1,	Was seen in company with three other men with rifle and was disarmed by Lieutenant McCarthy

(Ri38.i43.i5i).

2,	Accused admitted that during disturbance some one handed him-a carbine about midnight and he carried it for about 30 minutes when he took it to barracks and placed it in hall (Pros.Ex*7), •

. FRELOT

1,	Frelot was one pf soldiers at company supply roam who had a carbine (Rl38.i48.i5i) which he gave up on request (139).-

2,	Accused admitted he secured carbine at 3139 a.m. 25 June 1943 from supply room, but denied he Bad ammunition*

Returned it at ^45 -a.m.(Pros.Ex,8).

Accused remained silent.

Private Solomon Manuel had been in Preston on phss with Edward R, Williams returning about 12 midnight 24-25 JUne 1943* Manuel*left Williams at gate. He had no rifle

(H735).

Accused testified that he picked up carbine in hall of barracks and went outside for about 15 minutes and then went to bed(R423), He claimed he signed Pros.Ex.8 without reading it and denied the •truth of the recitals therein(R425),

- 30 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Prosecution's Evidence

(89)

Defense*s Evidence.

SAFFO

Accused was one of five men armed • with rifle and dressed in fatigue and mackintosh seen by Lieutenant Saniter. They remained armed from 10:40. p.m. to midnight while Lieutenant Saniter remained, with them, and talked with them (Ri78,l88).

He failed to put away rifle when ordered (Rl8l),

Accused testified that' upon” hearing disturbance he arose from bed and went outside. By the supply room he found a rifle without a, bolt in it. He picked it up as Lieutenant Saniter came around corner of building. Lieutenant Saniter told him to put it away, and after holding it about five minutes he placed it inside of building (R547-549).

ENGRAM

Same as Saffo (R178,188).

He failed to obey order to put up rifle (R181).

Accused declared he obtained a rifle from company supply room which was open, but after Lieutenant Saniter explained things, accused returned rifle to supply room (R551,552).

FLAGG

Same as Saffo (R178,188).

He failed to obey order to put up

rifle ((R18L).

• » ► *

Accused asserted that he had Wen to office for his mail, and upon returning, he approached the supply room end of Building M.^ On the ground were twO rifles’. He took the guns to the supply room, but it was locked. Lieutenant Saniter was at end of hall and he looked back at accused, who held the rifles about 2^ minutes. Accused laid* rifles down and joined Lieutenant Saniter who was talking to the men* Lieutenant Saniter saw him with rifles (R555-561).

KTB1TSEV

Same as Saffo (R178,188).

He failed to obey order to put up rifle (R181).

HORTON

y

Private Albert F. Jackson saw accused carrying a rifle walking in the-direction of company supply room. Accused informed witness he had found a rifle

Accused denied that he had possession of a gun at any time during night (R565).

Accused stated that he went to headquarters barrack and found rifle in hallway and took it and placed in store room. Had it about two minutes. Jackson saw him with it and

- 31 -

^'FIDEMTML
COKFIotNTIAL

(90)

Prosecution's Evidence. ■	Defense's	Evidence.

(Horton - Cant’d)".'

and wa3 taking it to the supply	asked	what	he	was	doing	with it.

room (R240).	Accused	replied he was putting it in

store room' (R574-> 576).

ARBUCKLE

Corporal Raymond D. Ferguson saw accused about 10s 30 p.m. standing at corner of barracks without a rifle (R579).

Accused denied he had a rifle at any time during evening and did not go to orderly room (R597,598).

Sergeant Fred Walters saw accused in movie between 8:30 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. without rifle (R599).

AVERI

Accused denied he had a rifle any time that night (R60A).* Saw Sergeant Engram in door of "his room and only asked how men who were shot were getting along. (R605). S/S McDonald saw Avery from 10:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. in common room, but he had no rifle (R610). Corporal Raymond D. Ferguson saw accused in hallway about 5 minutes without' rifle or helmet (R585). T/5 Boney saw accused in barracks hall in evening and he did not have a rifle (R608). Sergeant Fred Walters saw accused between 10:30 and 11:00 p.m. on front of barracks, but he had neither rifle nor helmet (R599).

KENDALL	’

Same as Avery (R222,225,228,229,‘ .• Accused denied he had a rifle that 230 233 236).	night	(R642,645).	Saw	Sergeant

' '	‘	Engram	in door of his room and asked:

"Are you going out to see about the ' men that have been shot?" (R642). Corporal Walter Carney saw accused about 10:30 p.m. or 11:00 p.m. outside of barracks, again about 12:00 M. for 15 or 20 minutes and neither time did he have rifle, helmet or gasmask (R647,648).•

- 32 -

-OHFIPP^TIAL

.Lieutenant Gibson did not see accused at barracks between 11:4-5 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. while he was with his men and rifles were being turned in (R222,224->225). Accused, with Kendall came to room of Sergeant Ulysses B.

Engram between 12:30 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. carrying rifles and inquired why Engram was not leading his men.,(R229,232,233,236).

Accused delivered a rifle and three rounds of ammunition to Lieutenant Gibson, when the latter required men to turn in their guns (R222,224-).
CONFIDENTIAL

(91)

Prosecution's Evidence. (Kendall - Cont'd).

WISE

Sergeant Ulysses B. Engram saw Wise in company area walking in direction of administration building armed with a rifle (R228-230, 235-236)..	•

Private Albert F. Jackson saw Wise standing in a ditch crying. He had a rifle. This was after 1Q:30 p.m. (R239-240).

Corporal Raymond D. Ferguson at about 11:30 p.m. saw Wise with a rifle standing at end of barracks. Wise voluntarily delivered rifle” to Ferguson who was collecting them under Lieutenant Gibson's orders (R582,583,585).

Defense's Evidence.

Sergeant James Wiggins saw Kendall between 10:30 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. when Kendall was coming from infirmary to barracks. He had no rifle (R649,650).

. While leaving barracks to.attend meeting in company area he had to jump a ditch. He fell and his foot hit a rifle. He picked it up and put against the building. Corporal Ferguson came up and accused gave rifle to him. He did not see Sergeant Engram that night (R587,588, 590).	•'

Corporal Raymond D. Ferguson at about 11:30 p.m. saw ’Wise at end of barracks with a rifle. Wise gave Ferguson the rifle voluntarily because Ferguson was under orders of Lieutenant Gibson to collect rifles (R582,583,585).

Private Llilton C. Boulden saw Wise at about 11:00 p.m. at head of passage-way as he was handing rifle to Corporal Ferguson (R&53)»

ROACH

Lieutenant Ryland saw Roach first time in day-room.aft^r-armored car had left. He had a rifle. He saw him a second time as he lay on the floor asleep with his head against a chair. He had a rifle. Lieutenant Ryland said to him: "You had better go to bed", but did not. order him to put rifle away. Accused wore a.helmet. He obeyed order to go to bed .(R212,215,217). Accused admitted he took a .30 caliber rifle from the supply room at. 12:4-5 a.m., but asserted he returned it next morning. He took no ammunition (Pros.Ebc.9).

Accused testified that upon returning from Preston at 10:30 p.m. saw a crowd about gate, and when Capt. Anderson ordered men back to barracks he complied..As he stood in company area a shot sounded as if it ricochetted off barracks roof. Accused obtained helmet and went to air-raid shelter where he remained until 12:00 M. He started to go to bed and heard some one shouting:

"Get your rifles, they are at the gates with.machine guns". He was frightened and got rifle from supply room and went into day-room. After talking to some pen he fell asleep. Lieutenant Ryland woke him up and told him to go to bed. Took rifle to his room and put it in wall-locker and went to bed. Turned rifle in

- 33 -

COURDEMTIM
(92)

CGilFiOEHTlAL

Prosecution's Evidence. (Roach - Cont'd).

Defense's Evidence.

the next morning. Had no intentioij to use rifle against officers or military police or joining in riot (E634-636),	■

SMITH

Accused had a rifle as he stood in barracks common room (R212, 213).

Accused.admitted he took.a Spring-field .30 caliber rifle with A rounds of ammunition from company supply room and returned it next morning (Pros.Ex.10).

TERRELL

Accused had a rifle as he stood in common-room (R212,213). Accused admitted that at 11:00 p.m. on 24 . June 1943.he tpok a Springfield .30 rifle from company supply room, but. took no ammunition. '■ Returned rifle next morning (Accused's oral admission to Keegan R375-377,386-389,393,394).. .

GRIGG

Captain Latham was inspecting barracks of 1933rd pompany between 11:00 p.in. and 12 midnight on 24 June 1943* Heard rifle bolt click and went into a room and saw"Grigg with a rifle. Captain Latham told" him not to be foolish, to stay out of trouble and to put rifle down. Grigg put rifle down, turned out lights and went outside. Captain Latham locked door (R245-247).

Accused made an unsworn statement to the"effect that when he heard shouts of "Get your rifle" he went to supply room and took hi3 rifle and then returned to his rooiji. About half an hour later he went to common room and remained there until Lieutenant Ryland advised everybody.to.gp to bed. Accused obeyed and went to bed (R724,725).

Accused remained silent.

Accused testified he found a rifle during evening standing against door of barracks. Picked.it up and took it to his room. Captain Latham saw him with, it and said: "'.That do you intend to do with that rifle?" Accused replied: "Nothing, Sir." Captain Latham said: "Leave the rifle in the room and go outside." Witness obeyed. Captain Latham locked the.door of the room.Accused spent the night in the day-room (R710,711,714,716).

The Specification of Charge III alleges that the accused violated the 96th Article of War in ten separate and distinct ways any one of which would have sustained h conviction. With respect to the fifteen accused whose

-34-


CONFIDENTIAL

■ ,

convictions are now subject to review, considerations need only be given to the allegations that they did (l) seize arms and ammunition by breaking into store rooms and (2) bear arms. There is no proof of any kind or nature that they or either of them were guilty of acts alleged in the re- * mainder of the specification.

The form of the Specification is not subject to criticism on the

ground, of duplicity. . '	’	..	.	*	,

• '

i

ttAn indictment or count in which two or more separate and distinct offences, whether of the same or a different,nature, are set forth together, is said to be double, and such a -pleading is bad on account of duplicity.1

This rule, however, does not apply to the stating'together, in the same count, of several distinct criminal acts, provided the’same . all form parts of the same transaction, and substantially complete a single occasion of offence. Thus it has been held that assault and.battery and false imprisonment, when committed together or in immediate sequence, may be laid in the same count without duplicity, since Collectively they constitute but one offence.1 So it is.held*not double pleading to allege in the same count the larceny of • several distinct articles appropriated, at the same time and place.

A further description of cases is to 'be noted as not within the rule, or as constitut-' - ing an exception to the rule,- viz., cases of statutory offences or phases of offence of the same nature, classified in the enactment as of the same species*and made similarly punishable.

In a case of this class it was observed by a U, S. court that the several criminal acts indicated may be regarded as 'representing each • a stage in the same offence, and therefore properly to be coupled in one count."'

(Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, Reprint, pp.14-3-144.)

"Where a single offense may be-committed by several means or in several ways, it may be , charged in a single count to have been so committed, if the ways' or means are not repugnant; but a count cannot be sustained if the means alleged are inconsistent	(31	C.J.,

sec.324., pp.763-764).

: - 35 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFirUTIAL

(94)	-	"

The ways and means alleged in the Specification are not in any degree repugnant, contradictory cfr inconsistent. Due to the difficulties involved in charging and trying such a large group .of men “the form of pleading used in this case was proper (CM 153268 (1922), CM 192530 (1930)j Dig.Ops.JAG.,1912-40, sec.428(14), p.298).

It will be noted that the accused wero charged with committing the acts "jointly and in pursuance of a common intent".' While the act of each accused in securing or bearing a fire-arm was an individual act the evidence is Highly convincing that such acts were the result of a common motive and common purpose. It fully sustains the charge of joint action with a common intent.	•	1

The evidence is uncontradicted that on the night of 24.-25 June 1943, all rifles and carbines of the military units stationed at AAF Station #569, except those issued to guards and sentries on duty were stored in company supply rooms. The ammunition was stored in a room in the guard-house and at regimental headquarters. None ofthe accused were authorized either specifically or as members of a command to take or procure fire-arms or ammunition. Under such circumstances their seizure was wrongful and illegal and the taking of them constituted-an offense -under the 96th Article of War as a disorder and neglect "to the prejudice of good order ‘and military discipline"'. Likewise the bearing of arms at times when same is unauthorized or prohibited is a similar offense.

. “‘All disorders and neglects.' In this com- -prehensiveiterm are included all such insubordination} disrespectful or insulting• language or behavior towards superiors or ’ inferiors in rank} violence} »***'turbulent, wantonj mutinous, or irregular conduct} violation of standing orders, regulations, or instructions} **** in fine all such '.sins of commission or omission,' on.the part of either of officers or soldiers as, on the one hand, do not fall within the category, of the 'crimes' previously designated, and, on the.other.hand, are not expressly made punishable in any.other ('foregoing') specific Articles of the code, while vet being clearly prejudicial to good order and military discipline." (Winthrop's Military Law & Prcedents,

. Eepfint, p.722) (Underscoring supplied).

(a)	With respect to the findings of guilty of the accused Frelot, Engram, Roach, Smith.and.Terrell there is substantial competent evidence that each of the accused without authorization of any kind entered company . • gun or supply rooms and seized a rifle-or carbine and thereafter carried the same wrongfully and without authority for some part of the time during which there was disturbance and violence in the camp and in contiguous' areas. The evidence, however, as to each accused, fails to establish the

GPNF?np”T,‘L
(95)

CONFIDENTIAL

fact that the seizure was effected "by breaking into the store rooms." Oppositely it shows that each of these accused entered the store rooms after they had been broken into and secured a rifle or carbine. There was no element of force involved in their entries;’ hence there- was no "breaking" within the technical and generally recognized meaning of the -word (W. & P., Perm, p.775). However, the gist of the offense was the wrongful and unauthorized seizure and bearing of‘arms. The allegation "by breaking into store rooms" was surplusage and an unnecessary averment. It is merely descriptive. It could have been eliminated entirely without affecting the gravamen of the offenses Hence, failure of proof to , support such averment may be wholly disregarded (31 C.J., sec.455, pp.837, 838). - - * •

I *	„	’

(b)	The findings* of guilt against accused Edward R* Williams, Saffo, Flagg, Kirksey, Horton, Arbuckle, Avery, Kendall, Wise and Grigg are supportable upon entirely different evidentiary foundations. There is no proof that any of- the named accused entered a supply or gun storage room and seized a rifle or carbine, nor are there any facts upon which legitimate inferences of such conduct may be based.

It may be- assumed as a general proposition that proof of mere possession of a rifle or carbine is not sufficient to establish that accused's possession was wrongful and unlawful. It may further be assumed that if the only relevant evidence as to the conduct of the above named ten accused is that particularly summarized immediately above, it would be insufficient to establish that the possession by each accused of a rifle or carbine sometime during the night of 24-25 June 1943 was wrongful and

unlawful under the,96th Article-of War.

’ . > . . . \

There Can be no question as to the seriousness or extent of the disorders and violence prevailing at AAF Station #569 and the adjacent community at the time 'these accused were found in possession of rifles and carbines. Neither is there any doubt that-the supply rooms where arms were ordinarily stored had been wrongfully and forcibly broken into and rifles and carbines removed therefrom without authority, and that the firearms which were later in possession of accused were some of the rifles and carbines which had been wrongfully taken from the supply rooms. At approximately the same time, the ammunition storage, rooms in camp had been forcibly entered and ammunition- stolen therefrom. There is no proof that any* of these ten soldiers committed"these unlawful and disorderly.acts. , However, the proof is abundant that each of them was fully cognizant of the turbulent, riotous conditions then prevailing. It is fair to impute to them the knowledge that'other of their fellow.soldiers had not only wrongfully secured possession of anas and ammunition but were also using the same promiscuously, dangerously and unlawfully^ that Government motor vehicles had been or were being seized and used without authority and that there were assemblies of soldiers in the eamp engaged in excitgd and emotional argument and discussion. It is also fair to charge them with knowledge that the rifles "found" by them were part of the rifles which had been removed from the supply rooms without authority.

- 37 -

■ CONFIDENTIAL
co;::idential

(96)

These accused have been acquitted of charges of joining in a mutiny and committing riot. The situation under consideration is identical-with-one which would have existed had these accused been charged only with wrongful and unlawful possession of fire-arms. It is manifest that the defense early in the trial anticipated this legal issue when it moved to strike the part of lieutenant Roller’s testimony pertaining generally to disturbed and ritous conditions of the camp (R87). The motion was denied and in the opinion of the Board of Review the ruling was proper at the stage at which it was made. Had it been renewed at the conclusion of the prosecution’s case in chief it. should also have been -denied. Notwithstanding the acquittal of these accused of charges of joining in a mutiny and rioting, the causes and circumstances under which they came into possession of the fire-arms are certainly relevant and material facts bearing directly upon the issue, of the wrongfulness and illegality of their possession.

"The general rule is well settled that all evidence must'be relevant. If evidence is relevant upon the general issue of guilt, or innocence, no valid reason exists for . its rejection merely because it may prove, or may tend to prove, that the accused Committed some other -crime, or may establish • some collateral" and unrelated fact. Evidence of other acts to be .available must have some logical connection and reveal evidence of ' knowledge, design, plan, scheme, or conspiracy of the crime charged ■***" (Underhill’s Criminal Evidence, 4-th Ed., sec.184, pp.333--	-335). ■

The following decisions are interesting examples of the application of the foregoing rule to circumstances similar to those of the instant easel Moore v. United States, 150 U.S. 57, 37 L.Ed., 996; Jackson v. United Stated, 102 Fed. 473, 5 C.J«,p,780, footnote 67;Smith v. State, 123 Alabama 64, <26 Southern 641,- 5 C.J., p.780, footnote 67; State v. Belisle, 79 N.H. 444,

111 Atlantic 316, 6 C.J.S., sec.117, p.981, footnote 12; State v. McCahill, 72 Iowa 111, 30‘ N.W. 553, 33 N.W. 599, 1 Wharton’s Criminal Evidence, sec. . 346, p.493, footnote 17.

' * *

The possession of fire-arms by the ten accused soldiers when considered against the background of.this larger scene assumes an entirely different aspect than that suggested by the specific evidence (summarized * above) against each of them when considered alone. The accused did not "find” the rifles and carbines in and about the barracks and in the company areas as they went about routine military duties during the ordinary tranquility and orderliness of a well disciplined camp. The fire-arms "found" by;them had not been mislaid, or carelessly left behind by others and then picked up by accused and returned - to the storage rooms. .. If such were the facts there would be.most Berious doubts as to the guilt of these accused.

. - 38 -

.(WJFIDENTIAl
(97)

CONFIDENTIAL.

These accused acquired possession of the rifles and carbines during a tumultuous disturbance and agitation in camp characterized by open violation of rules, orders and regulations, the discharge of firearms endangering life and limb, the seizure and unauthorized use of Government property, and assembly of personnel, emotional and sensitive to canards and rumours', in groups more nearly, resembling mobs than military organizations. Discipline and control by superior officers had. deterior-. ated to the point where it had largely been replaced with argument and persuasions addressed not to soldiers, but to frightened, angry men. The situation was highly explosive and manifestly it possessed the potentialities of a. large scale mutiny and rioting with promise of tragic and disastrous consequences. The possession of lethal weapons, even for short periods of time under such circumstances and conditions, cannot be treated as casual, harmless episodes. Under the circumstances a .soldier possessed a rifle or carbine at his peril. This conclusion is neither harsfr nor arbitrary; it is dictated by prudence and common sense.

It was within-the particular province of the court to consider the actions and conduct of each accused with, respect to his possession of fire-arms in the light of the entire circumstances as shown .by the evidence. The denials of certain accused that they were in possession of rifles at the time and place alleged produced issues of fact. The explanations offered by other accused in instances where possession of fire-arms was admitted were in the nature of confessions and avoidance of the chapge.

Their exculpatory value as against culpatory evidence resulted also in factual issues. ..	.	•	.

The weighing of the evidence and determining its sufficiency, the judging of credibility of witnesses, the resolving of conflicts in the -evidence and the determination of the ultimate facts were functions committed to the court as a fact-finding tribunal. Its conclusions are final and conclusively binding on the Board of Review where the same are supported by substantial competent evidence (CM ETO 106, Orbon: CM ETO 132, Kelly and Hyde: CM ETO 397, Shaffer: CM ETO 422, Green: CM ETO 492, lewis: CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al). In the instant case the Board of Review is satisfied that the supporting evidence is competent’ and admissible; that the findings, are supported by substantial evidence and are legally sufficient in every respect. ' '	' ' ._

/11,. The. accused, Patterson, Ogletree, Cradic, Mack and Jame.s E.

Johnson were each found Hot Guilty of Charge I and its specifications but Guilty of Charges II and Ili and their respective specifications. Prosecution’s evidence specifically directed against the above mentioned accused and each accused's defensive evidence summarizes as follows: .

- 39 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(98)

Prosecutions Evidence.

' CONFIDENTIAL

Defense^ Evidence.

PATTERSON

Captain Anderson saw Patterson in group of soldiers at the main gate.

He was excited and emotional as he asked for permission to go to town to see the wounded men(R61). His attitude might have had a bad effect • on other, men. Captain Anderson told him to calm his men down and return them to .barracks, but did not know whether Patterson complied (R68).

lieutenant Roller heard Patterson very excitedly say he was . determined to leave post. About 50 men were present. Several men got him by the arm and held him (R77) . but he was struggling toward the gate (R99). Lieutenant Sylvester tried unsuccessfully to calm Patterson who was insistent upon leaving camp because two of the men had been shot (R77,96). Major Heris gave Patterson permission to go to town on promise of good behavior if he dressed in "Class A" uniform. He left post in a jeep, but when he returned he was walking (R97).

Captain Milnanow, of the Medical Corps, on returning from 110th General Hospital in ambulance met Patterson with another soldier in a jeep. He was excited, but he (Kilnaraow) assured him that Ogletree and Adams were all right and he re- . turned with party to camp (R117,126). At the dispensary Patter.son admitted that rifle in hall was his. He had six rounds of ammunition in his pocket (R120). Patterson said he was primarily interested in knowing if men were killed, and if they were they would get revenge, but since they were not he wa3 not much interested (R120).

Sergeant Eugene C. Walker was with ambulance that met Patterson. Patterson was with Sergeant Bentley and a Lieutenant. Patterson said he had to be sure the men were all

Sergeant Eugene C, Walker was at camp dispensary between 2 & 4s 00 a.m. on 25 June 1943» Captain Llilnamow, Lieutenants Fernstein and Warjackie, Patterson and. accused Davis were present. • They engaged in general conversation.

Lieutenant Sylvester saw Patter-■ son at front camp gate. He was yelling and seemed agitated and was in O.D. uniform without hat (R528).

Saffo asserted Patterson told him to pick up any rifles he saw and bring, them to rifle r.oom (R547).

Lieutenant Saniter testified he promoted Patterson to permanent grade of First Sergeant and considered him of value to the military service. He was a good first sergeant (R766,767). He saw Patterson for a few seconds. Patterson volunteered the statement: "Sir, the men are out of control" (R767). He. gave Patterson no orders or instructions as to conduct (R769) and could not say Patterson had incited his men to bear arms (R767).

Patterson, as a witness in his own behalf, gave the following narrative of his actions and conduct on night of 24.-25 June 1943s . He worked with company in the master motor pool of camp. At 5s30 p.m. he went to "chow" and company commander ordered company to return to pool in evening. The company was preparing to move next day. After concluding work later in evening he washed the company commander's jeep and then between 9s30 p.m. and 10:00	,

p.m. he went to company assembly room arid obtained bottles of Coca Cola. He returned empty bottles to assembly room. He then went to_ theater and looked at picture from entrance (R770). He came out of theater about 10:30 p.m. and went to snack-bar in assembly room, obtained

- 40 -

odr
CONFIDENTIAL

Prosecution's Evidence. .

(Patterson - cont'd).

right because he had to let the boys back at camp know that fact ■. (R120).

Lieutenant Bjerke went with Patterson on trip to 110th General Hospital. Patterson drove,the jeep. He drove fast but not recklessly (R162,161,173). En route met returning ambulance. Upon Captain Kilna-. mow's assurance that men were all right. Patterson seemed pleased (R173) and drove back to camp. On return trip to camp jeep contain- , ing Lieutenant Bjerke,. Bentley and Patterson was stopped first by civil police and then by group of soldiers. Patterson said: "This is Sergeant Patterson. The men in the hospital . are OK". Was stopped a third time with similar salutation from Patterson (R166,17l), Upon returning to camp Patterson wap at camp dispensary with Captains Milnamow and . . Ga-ardot and Lieutenant Bjerke. Was there l|- hours and was respectful (R168). He had a-.handful-of ammunition. He did not seem rebellious towards witness (Rl6l).

Lieutenant Saniter saw Patterson once during evening when Patterson came up.to Lieutenant Saniter while latter was engaged in conversation with battalion commander, Patterson said his men were out of control and he could do nothing.with them. Patterson had.no rifle but was disheveled (E179,185,186,189). Lieutenant Saniter gave him no orders (R186). Patterson was a strong first sergeant and was member of same company as Ogletree (R187).

Lieutenant Willis returned to main gate in a jeep. Patterson.came to him and said! "Lieutenant, who shot my man?" Lieutenant Willis replied: "Sergeant, I don't know who has been shot or anything about it.

I am going outside now.to find out". Patterson said: "By God, I am going

(99)

Defense's Evidence.

a sandwich and looked at pool game.

He left snack-bar between 10:30 and 11:00 p.m. and proceeded to his barracks. He noticed two or three soldiers running in direction of camp infirmary (R77l). He then walked towards infirmary and saw two soldiers. One said: "Sergeant Patterson, one of your men got shot (naming him)".

Then Patterson went to infirmary door where company commander inform? ed him that Ogletree.and a boy from 1919th company had been shot. Patterson returned to his barracks at about 10:15 p.m. As he walked towards barracks he saw an ambulance leave. He went to latrine and then orderly room where he 'heard confusion in the road. Looking out of window he saw men running towards camp gate. (R772). Patterson went down to gate where he.saw Lieutenants Roller and Sylvester, The latter was on walk in front of sentry box. There were 10 or 50 men in front of guardhouse (R773). Patterson asked Lieutenant Roller's permission to go to see wounded men. Lieutenant Roller refused permission on Major Heris' orders. He gave no orders. Saw no men at gate with rifles, Patterson returned to barracks L and M between 11:00	,

p.m. and 11:10 p.m. There were about 50 men outside and inside of barrack U (R77l). Company commander was making a speech to men. Captain Anderson was standing by his jeep talking to two men. Saw no men with rifles,. Patterson walked up to Captain Anderson, who said to him: "Sergeant, ag your men under control?" Patterson replied: "As.far as I can see, sir, they are under control; standing there talking to the company commander." Patterson then entered his barracks by exit door and saw two men - one a noncommissioned officer -standing there with rifles. He asked

— 11 —

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Prosecution1s Evidence.	.

Patterson - cont'd)	.

to find out" and turning to the men said: "Gone on men" and started back into camp followed by five men.' Patterson did not have a rifle. He •was excited, and did not salute. He wa3 not disrespectful unless his statement,."By God, etc" was dis- ■ '■ respectful (R261,267,268).

Lieutenant >Huxtable saw-Patterson about 10:30' p.m. just before Major_ Heris talked to men. Patterson was in a jeep. He was excited and mentioned fact that one of. his men had been shot and he was going to do something .about it. He wan not,directing his conversation'to anyone in particular, but a group of soldiers were about . who could hear his remarks.Patterson drove away in a jeep with Lieutenant Bjerke.(R271,273,275,276,277).	.	_

Sergeant Gordon B. Hicks.saw Patterson talking to Major. Heris. in a nervous manner between 11:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight, stating he wanted to go to 110th,General Hospital to see wounded men. Ma.jor Heris gave his assent and Lieutenant Bjerke, and Hicks went with Patterson in a'jeep. Major.Heris told 'Hicks to accompany Patterson to keep him under control » (R305). At Warrington they met the ambulance returning. Patterson said to Captain Milnamow: "How is the boys?" Captain Milnamow answered: “The boys are going along all right." Sergeant Walter, who was with the ambulance sail: "Yes, the boys are all right,

Pat, don't worry". Patterson said:

"One boy. Ogletree- he was in ny company..He was my friend. I never., known him to take a drink. I am worried about him. He was one of my best'friends." Patterson was respectful to Captain Milnamow (R305,309,

310) and seemed relieved at news concerning wounded men (R310). , Patterson was also respectful to Lieutenant Bj erke'(R309). Patterson, Lieutenant Bjerke, Bentley and Hicks

'. Defense1s Evidence.

them what they were, doing with them and ordered them to put them back - in supply room (R775),. The -two men-were' none of the accused, in barracks hallway saw two. more men picking up rifles. Patterson in- _ quired what they were doing with them, and receiving no reply told them to. put them in supply room. Patterson .then.went to, pwn room'for cigarettes and obtaining them went' to .supply room where there were 16 or 20 rifles on table and in racks. Supply room was.open. Patterson picked up the rifles and took them to his room. One of the rifles had .

3	rounds of ammunition in it. Normally there were 103 rifles in company (R776,784). Witness left. his room and locked his door,. Men were coming into barracks and it started.to rain. This was about 11:20 p.m. Pattersoii went to exit door.where Captain Anderson and Lieutenant Sanitenwere talking,, and asked Captain Anderson if he thought there'was any possibility of Patterson going to see Ogletree, Captain Anderson made no reply.

Then Captain Anderson and Patter-; son got into former's jeep and drove to main gate. Stopped.in front of guardhouse. The number of * men had doubled - many with rifles. Saw Lieutenant Sylvester and Major Heris. Patterson approached the . latter, saluted and asked permission to see.how the wounded men were. Major Heris inquired: "Who are you?" Patterson, replied that he was first sergeant of the 1945th company. Major Heris said: "What ' hospital.did they go to?" Patterson replied: "I really don't know, but , I could find out from the infirmary." Patterson telephoned infirmary from guardhouse and was informed wounded men had been taken to Warrington hospital. This v/as only time

- 42 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(101)

Prosecution's Evidence.

(Patterson - cont'd)."

followed ambulance back to camp (R310). About 50 or 60 or 80 armed men stopped party on Access Road. Patterson called: "This is Serg-, eant Patterson. The Boys are OK" and they were allowed to pass (R310). Hicks did not see Patterson with a gun. He was not disrespectful but "contrary41. Upon reaching camp Lieutenant Bjerke, Patterson and Hicks were informed Lieutenant Ousset had been shot (R312). .

Lieutenant Edwards, officer of day, was called at guardhouse at 10:4-5 p.m. He saw Patterson at the camp gate. Patterson asked if he could leave and Lieutenant Edwards refused him permission, and told him to go back to his quarters and take his men with him. Patterson was excited, and was with witness about three minutes. He asked to go to his men who were in trouble, and did not ask to go to hospital

(8316,324).

Captain DeBaun, LI.C., was at camp dispensary and during course of evening received two telephone calls from Patterson. His voice was excited. He was inquiring as to his men who had been shot (R331,337).

Captain Gerardot did not see Patterson with a gun during the evening, and at no time that night did he order a noncommissioned officer or soldier to pick up a rifle (R8,ll).

- 43 -

CONFIDENTIAL

Defense's Evidence.

Patterson telephoned infirmary(R777). Returning to Major Keris, Patterson reported where the men were, Major Heris said he did not see any harm in witness going and asked if he had a blouse. Patterson was dressed in O.D. pants and field jacket. Major Heris told Patterson to secure blouse which he did and returned to Major Heris. Major Keris told him to take a specified jeep, and directed that Lieutenant Bjerke and a sergeant accompany him. As they started Major Heris asked Lieutenant Bjerke and Patterson to give their word of honor that they would go to the Warrington hospital and'report back to him. He shook hands with them (R778). Drove out of Access Road about 11:30 p.m. Saw outside of camp two military police with "tommy" guns and Sergeant Bentley and Henry Bryant.

Stopped jeep and went over to police. Lieutenant Moll, the chaplain, came up to Bentley and told him he "had too damned much mouth", but told Bentley to get in jeep and Bryant to go back to camp (R774). On returning from V/arrington and at a short distance from camp gates someone shouted: "Turn out them lights" and asked who was there. Patterson identified himself and said he was returning from the hospital; that the men were all right and that all should come back to the barracks, Patterson and party were stopped once more as they were about to turn into officers' quarters. Patterson left jeep at corner in company with Lieutenant Bjerke. They proceeded as far as officers' quarters when they saw a command car in front of it containing Lieutenant Ousset, He was shouting for some one to take him into the dispensary. There was an enlisted man driving car (R780,787). Lieutenants Warjackie, Roller and Bjerke walked in front of car and
CONFIDENTIAL

Prosecution13 Evidence. (Patterson - cont'd).

Defense's Evidence.

•

Patterson walked by the side of it. Lieutenant Ousset was taken into dispensary. Patterson accompanied- party and remained until 4s00 a.m. on 25 June. Patterson.picked up a rifle in entrance-way to dispensary and on encountering Captain Gerardot asked him what to do with it. Captain Gerardot told Patterson to place it inside the door-way and help Lieutenant Ousset into the dispensary . which Patterson did (R78l), While in the dispensary Patterson took three rounds of ammunition out of his left-hand pocket and placed it on desk in presence of other people. The three rounds had been obtained from one of the rifles of the company which Patterson had taken to his room (782, 788). One hundred rifles were missing from supply room but company was under control because officers were talking to them (R789). Assisted in collecting company rifles next day - found 32 rifles in another barracks. Patterson denied saying to Sergeant Hicks that he hoped the men were all right for otherwise "I do not know what. I would do," but did say he hoped Ogletree was all right (R790). Denied saying: "Well, By God, I -am going to find out who shot them", and "I am going to do something about it." (R792). Patterson intended to. repobt’. Ogletree' s and Adams' condition to company. Ke reported to Major Heris upon return. Patterson denied he had ever received a direct order from Major Heris or any other officer, and denied he had told Lieutenant Saniter he could not control his men (R793). He returned the 16 rifles to the store room next day (R794).

Captain Moll remembered when engaged in a conversation with Sergeant Bentley and a jeep drove up and stopp-. ed, a sergeant in the car said: "Sergeant Bentley come along with us, we are going to the hospital at . Warrington" -(R795). Lieutenant Bjerke,

- 44 -	.

CONFIDENTIAL

\
CONFIDENTIAL

v (103

Prosecution*s Evidence.	•	Defense's Evidence. *

(Patterson - cont'd).

who was in the car. gave his consent to Bentley going (R797).

Sergeant J.D.Bentley went to Warrington with Patterson in a jeep. He . got into the jeep under impression that Patterson was ordering him to do so (R801).

Major Herds testified he gave Patterson permission to leave camp between 10:30 and 10:4.5 p.m. after Patterson had expressed anxiety as to condition . of his men (R803).. Major Heris put Patterson on his honor to return to post and he may or may not have shaken hands with him. It was a proposition of individual to individual rather than a military matter, Patterson was entirely .	. emotional - rational but shaky and high-

ly strung. He was not shouting, but made his request in a courteous manner (R804) The lieutenant and noncommissioned _ ■ officer accompanied Patterson on trip to hospital as a precautionary measure because there had been some disturbance and not because Major Heris thought . . Patterson might, do something wrong. He■ had every confidence in Patterson (R805) , ' ‘ • * OGLETREE

Captain Milnamow saw Ogletree in ' Ogletree, appearing as his own witness front of dispensary with group	testified that he was shot in a fight'

of colored soldiers. He was	with military police on Station Road in

excited and shouted:	nI am still	Bamber Bridge early in the evening of 24-

fighting," and "Are you not going	June 1943. He was 2-g- or 3 blocks from

to get those guys?" Ogletree was camp -when accosted by Private Albert not suffering from shock, but	Jackson and Private Eugene Nunn who

exhibited anger (R116,125-127).'	helped .him to camp gate. There he was

Lieutenant Saniter saw Ogle-	placed in a truck and taken to dispens-

tree on the operating table in	ary. He disclaimed knowledge of any

hospital about 10:30	p.m. on 24	events from time he reached gate to time

June. Ogletree said:	"Sir, I went	he reached 110th General Hospital at

over the gate without a pass". He Warrington. He was in hospital for a seemed happy (R177,183). Ogletree month and two days (R534->537). and Patterson-were members of the	Private	Kunn	testified Ogletree was

same company (R187).	.. shot in a riot in town of Bamber Bridge.

He and Private Jackson assisted Ogletree ■ to camp where he was placed -in truck and ■	.	taken to dispensary. Nunn was with Ogle-

. •	tree in truck and assisted him into

. dispensary. He did not hear Ogletree

- 45 -

MNFinFNTm
(104)

CONFIDENTIAL

Prosecution's Evidence.	Defense^	Evidence.

(Ogletree - cont'd). • '	■	'	•

make.any remarks (R537-541).-

T/5 Calvin Harvey driving a truck arrived at camp gate1 between 10:00 p.m.. and 11:00 p.m. on 24 June 1943..Saw Ogletree who was wounded.. He was with Hunn. Ogletree got into front seat of truck with Harvey. Nunn sat other side of him. Drove to dispensary where. Ilunn helped Ogletree from truck. Ogletree said he had been shot, but that was all (R541).	-	.

Private. John T. Collie was in motor pool. Upon he;aring Ogletree had been shot, went to his barracks and then ran to infirmary. He.saw a colored soldier helping Ogletree. Collie took Ogletree -by.shoulder and helped him into room where tbepe.was. a table. Ogletree' said nothing but smiled at lieutenant'

Saniter (R544,545>.

■ CRADIC ' .

tenant Saniter saw Ogle-	Cradic	testified	in	his	own behalf

tree taken to dispensary and then	that he obtained a rifle from the

went to 1949th company area -.	company store room when he heard that

buildings L and U. A few minutes	an armored car had come. He held .the

later he saw Cradic (in company	rifle'between lli00 p.m. and 12 mid -

of Engram, Flagg, Saffo and	night while Lieutenant Saniter was at ...

Kirksey) armed with rifle and. • the barracks. He.could not get,into . dressed in fatigues and macintosh.	supply room so he put. rifle'by supply

They gathered about Lieutenant	room'door when Lieutenant Saniter left,

Saniter who told them'to take	and'went to air-raid shelter. He was

their rifles back to store room,	in shelter for. ly to' 2. hours' and had .

and pointed out to them what they	no gun. When' he left shelter he went

were doing.	Lieutenant Saniter	'to.bed (R513). He said he had rifle

remained	in	company area from-	for own protection against armored car,

10:40 p.m. to midnight (R178,188)	The majority of the company	Obtained

and Cradic carried the rifle the	their rifles, but. no one in	particular

entire tine he was with the men ‘ told him to take his rifle (R517).

(R179). Cradic was not belliger-	Private	Vangelo Threadgili saw

ent. He made no effort to leave .	Cradic. in air-raid shelter,	after 3,1:00

company area and join disturbance	p.m.' on 24 June, but he did	not have

while Lieutenant Saniter was with gun (R51S,519).

him, Cradic approached Lieutenant	Sergeant	Lewis P. Phillips saw Cradic

Saniter in a friendly manner	in hallway of. barracks between 12 mid-

(R181,183).	■	'	night and 12:30 a.m..but he had no rifle.

Cradic was nervous and excited and •

.	.	Phillips invited him to sleep in' his

'	. •	room. They went to bed at 1:00 a.m. and

- 46 -	(	•

CONFIDENTIAL
Prosecution’s Evidence. (Cradic - icont’d)

CONFIDENTIAL

(105)

Defense’s Evidence.

Cradic was in bed next morning (R520).

Sergeant Nesbit Johnson saw Cradic in hallway of barracks between 11:15 p.m. and 12:30 d.m. without steel helmet or rifle (R523).

MACK

Captain Anderson identified Mack as one of the soldiers who was in the carry-all and approached the camp gate ahead of the truck containing armed soldiers. Captain Anderson ordered Mack and others from the carry-all. At that time Mack was armed with a rifle.Captain Anderson ordered all of the men to return to barracks and surrender their.rifles but could not truthfully testify that Mack disobeyed (R57,58,65,66,70-72).

Lieutenant Gibson had men of 1949th company turn in their rifles to him from 11:45 p.m. to 1:00 a.m,, but he did not see Mack in the group (R 220-225).

1st Sergeant Ulysses B. Engram of the 1929th company was returning from "movie" about 10:30 p.m. He saw Mack in company area walking in the direction of the administration building. He was armed with a rifle, but Engram did not attempt to overtake him (R229,230,235,236).

Mack remained silent (R834).

’Private Milton C. Bouldin saw Mack in common room of 1949th company a little before 10:00 p.m. Played checkers with him, 7/hile engaged in checkers heard report that someone had been shot. Mack did not have a rifle (R652-654).

JAMES E. JOHNSON

Lieutenant Ryland saw Johnson outside of Barracks B v/ith a rifle (R212). Johnson in a written statement (Pros.Ex.6; R343-346) admitted he obtained a rifle from the 1933rd company supply room on the night of 24 June. He stated that he knew the rifle was- returned to .the supply room the following morning.

Johnson remained silent (R834).

Private George C. Moore went to the day room of the 1933rd company with Johnson about lit 00 or 11:30 p.m. on 24 June. Lieutenant Ryland talked to men. Moore and Johnson left day room together, and went to bed. Johnson was in bed next morning (R718-720).

Staff Sergeant Lloyd Day saw Johnson between 11:30 p.m. and 12 midnight on 24 June in Barracks B. He had neither rifle nor helmet (R721). Day also saw Johnson in common room between 12 midnight and 12:15 a.m.

- 47 -

CONFIDENTIAL
' CONFIDENTIAL .	...

(106)

Prosecution's Evidence.	Defense's	Evidence.

(James E. Johnson - cont'd). ■	<	••••'.

while Lieutenant Rylahd was talking to men; He did not have a rifle or helmet (R722,723).

■ -Lieutenant Ryland had known Johnson- rather closely for about a year and considered him of value to military service; His reputation'for * . * .	. -	truth	and veracity was good (R727).

(a)	Beyond question there is competent substantial evidence that Patterson, Cradic and Mack were each in possession of fire-arms during'the night of 24-25 June 1943. Accused James E. Johnson admits he entered the supply room and obtained a rifle and thereafter possessed same. The discussion in paragraph 10 hereof as to the legal issues involved under the proof of Charge ill and its Specification is.here applicable and need not be repeated. The record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of ’these four named accused of Charge III and its Specification.

(b) As to accused Ogletree there is not even.a scintilla of evidence that he possessed fire-arms’at the time and place alleged. The findings of Guilty of Charge III and its Specification cannot be supported on .the basis of wrongful and unlawful possession of fire-arms. The finding of Ogletree's guilt of Charge III and its Specification will be treated hereinafter in connection with the finding of his guilt of Charge II and its Specification (joining in a riot).'

(c)	The accused Cradic belonged to the group of soldiers which included Engram, 'Flagg, ‘Saffo and Kirksey (see paragraph 10 supra) who were seen with rifles by Lieutenant Saniter between 10:40 p.m. and midnight (178, 188). The four named accused 7/ere acquitted by the court of the charge of joining in a mutiny (Gharge I and its Specification^ and committing a riot (Charge II and its Specification). Cradic,"likewise, was acquitted of joining in a mutiny. The evidence against Cradic is of the same quality, weight and substance as that against the four mentioned accused and requires the same treatment as was accorded by the court in.the latter instances. Cradic was undoubtedly guilty of wrongfully and unlawfully possessing a rifle at the time and place alleged, but even the prosecution's evidence exculpates“him from further responsibility. Accordingly the Board of Review is of .the opinion that the record is legally insufficient to support the finding of accused Cradic guilty of Charge II and.its Specification" (committing riot).

(d)	As to accused James E. Johnson, evidence is wholly lacking as to any pernicious or illegal activity during the evening'except his possession of a rifle which by his written statement (Prob.Ex.6)’ he admits he secured from the supply room. He was acquitted of the charge of. joining-in a mutiny (Charge I and its specifications). : The Board of Review is of. the opinion that the record is legally insufficient to support the finding " of Johnson’s guilt of Charge II and its Specification.

-48-

CONFIDENTIAL

!
I

CONFIDENTIAL.

(107)

(e)	There remains to be considered the guilt of Patterson,. Mack and Ogletree of the charge of committing riot (Charge II and its Specification). Hereinbefore the essential elements of the offense have been set forth (paragraph 7c and d, supra). The' Board of Review in its holding CM ETO 804., Ogletree et al, reference to which has been made herein, considered at length the nature of the offense of committing riot under the 89th Article of War, wherein military personnel is involved. It was there concluded that the crime could be committed at places other than "quarters, ’ garrison, camp and on the march". However; such conclusion does not deny that a riot may be committed by soldiers within and uppn a military reservation or establishment.	1

"A riot is a riot even though the rioters are soldiers and it takes place in a military camp" (39 T.L.R.7; 54 C.J., sec.

3,	p.830, footnote 25).

That a riot prevailed at AAF Station #569'on the night of 24-25 June 1943.has been adequately demonstrated. There was a violent disturbance of the public peace. Life and limb were put in jeopardy by the •uncontrolled discharging of fire-arms, and many armed men were active in the disorders. Ammunition stores had been robbed and a condition of hysterical excitement prevailed. The fact that British civilians were not injured or threatened by the immediate disturbance in the camp is irrelevant.

"Riot is essentially an offense against the public peace and good order, and looks to .	this rather than an infraction of the per-

sonal rights of any particular individual as such. It involves the execution of an agreement, express or implied between three or more persons to commit an assault or battery or a breach'of the peace. ***♦.

The place where the riot occurs is immaterial. ■****.

The violent and turbulent enterprises .. of bodies of men have uniformly been considered as dangerous to the rights of other citizens. Thus where a band,of persons makes an uproar and displays arms, or marches on a public street with violence and without a.permit, or makes an assault accompanied with loud threats and threatening display of force, or forcibly destroys the property of another, a riot may be committed, often in combination with another offense. ****». Mischief makers may become rioters, while indulging in a charivari, or in holiday celebrations. Intimidating or resisting civil officers may constitute a riot and so may the coercion of workmen.

- 49 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(108)

CONFIDENTIAL

Malicious_mischief, .night disorders, pole raising, and prize fights may also become riots.'The forcible appropriation of-prop--erty is‘an act of riotous tendency, while • public meetings are prolific sources of this offense. *■***.

The common law rule requires that three '■ or more persons must act together in • committing the offense, and most of the statutes defining•riot provide that the offense cannot be committed' by less than three persons. **-**.

• It is not necessary that the riotous -

. violence should have been premeditated , by the assembled perpetrators; therefore the

. original assembly may have been by accident or for a lawful purpose. **■**." (54 C.J., secs.3,4 and 5, pp,830,831,832)i

The legal principles involved in determining the responsibility of Patterson,. Hack and Ogletree are found in the following statements:

"All persons who are actually or constructively present at the time arid place of a crime, whether-it is a felony or merely a-misdemeanor, and who either actually aid,

■	abet, assist, or advise its commission,	’	'

or-are there with that purpose in mind, .

to the-knowledge of the party actually committing the~crime, are guilty as prin-

■	cipals* in the second degree, although they

• did not themselves accomplish the purpose.";

(16 C.J,, sec.117, p.130; 22 C.J.3., sec.

8$a,-p.157).

"So, among offenders,-the-Articles recognize no principals, and no accessories either before or after the fact, as such. The grades of crimes and of participators in

■	crime, familiar to the common law, are ' , unknown to the_law military, - and the embarr- • assing technicalities which have-grown out •" of the division of crimes into principal-and • accessorial are wholly foreign to the proce-

... dure of .courts-martial. In the 'military ■

■ practice all aroused persons are treated as independent offenders. Even though they may '. be jointly charged and tried,•as for partici--pation in a mutiny -for example, and each may be guilty of a distinct measure of criminality calling for a distinct punishment, yet all are principals in law." (V.inthrop1 s Military lav/ & Precedents, Reprint, p.108).

(

-50-

nnwnnFMUM_______ _
CONFIDENTIAL

(109)

"But- where two or more persons acting with' a common intent jointly engage in the same undertaking and jointly commit an unlawful act, each is chargeable with liability and responsibility for the acts of all'the' others, and each is guilty of the offense committed, to which he has contributed to the same extent as if he were the sole offender. And the common purpose need not be to commit the particular crime which is committed; if two persons join in a purpose to commit a crime, each of them, if actually or constructively present, is not only guilty as a principal, if the other commits that particular crime, but he is also guiltybf any other crime committed by the other in pursuance of the common purpose, or as a natural or probable consequence thereof. In order to show a community of unlawful purpose ■ it is not necessary to show an express agreement or an understanding between the parties.

Nor is it necessary that the conspiracy or common purpose shall be shown by positive evidence; its’ existence may be inferred from all the circumstances accompanying the doing of the act, and from conduct of defendant subsequent to the criminal act; in other words, preconcert or a community of purpose may be shown by circumstances as well as by direct evidence." (16 C.J*, sec.115, p.-128;

• 22 C.J.S., sec.87a, p.155).

Patterson's conduct during the disturbance and his participation therein is frankly revealed by his own testimony. The evidence of the prosecution serves only to high-light and explain it. He was first.sergeant of the company. It is manifest that he had established leadership and influence over the enlisted men thereof. . This 'leadership and influence was also recognized by the company officers. The fact that Llajor Heris in granting him permission to make the trip to the Warrington hospital elected to treat with him on an "individual to individual" basi3 and put him upon his "honor to return" unconsciously bespeaks volumes as to his position in the company and among his men. ~ His stature in this respect cannot be ignored in analyzing his conduct on this occasion. It is, in fact, the most vital point in the case against him.. Patterson became highly excited and reached an emotional stage approaching hysteria. There is substantial evidence that these demonstrations of emotional stress occurred in the presence of the men over whom he exerted more than usual influence. Reason and logic both dictate that such conduct on Patterson' s part effectually. served to increase the unrest and anger of the men who saw and heard him, and assisted materially in aggravating tbe disturbance. Considering the entire evidence with respect to Patterson, both the favorable and unfavorable, but one conclusion can be reached. Patterson was not a mere

\ • •

- 51 -

^NFIDENTIAL
(no)

CONFIDENTIAL

spectator, by-stander or non-participant, but he was an aider and abetter in creating the riotous condition in camp. The fact that he occupied a position of influence and prestige made his conduct thg more damaging to public peace, good order and military discipline. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to sustain the’ findings that Patterson'was guilty of joining in a riot (Charge II and its Specification).

Eack’s case requires but little consideration. He was one of the armed men who rode in the carry-all to the gate and were stopped and turned back by Captain Anderson. Mack possessed a rifle and was using Government property without order or authority. A riotous condition prevailed in the camp at this time. Here was an overt act which stands undenied and unexplained. It convicts hack of joining in a riot. The finding of the ■ court is sustained by substantial competent evidence.

Ogletree's position is a peculiar one and requires special treatment. He and Adams had been shot in a street brawl with military police earlier in the evening. The fact that they had been wounded was the origin and cause of the disorders and disturbance which followed. Distorted narratives of the events occurring a short time previously in Bamber Bridge stirred the emotions and animosity of the'ir fellow soldiers. Both wounded men returned to camp and were taken to the dispensary. Their presence excited curiosity and interest and their condition and actions directly influenced the conduct of the other soldiers. A group had gathered in front of the dispensary as Ogletree and Adams were assisted from the truck. Seizing this opportunity Ogletree in a pitch of excitement and anger shouted: "I am fighting. I am still fighting. Are you not going to get those guys?". Language of this nature coming from one Of the victims of a supposed unfair attack would certainly serve to influence the sympathies of the auditors and incite them to acts of violence and breaches of the peace. Ogletree became thereby one of the principal originators of the disorder and he was certainly guilty of "joining in a riot" (Charge II and Specification). As heretofore noted there i3 no evidence that he was in possession of fire-arms. However, his harangue to thfe soldiers while being assisted into the dispensary also constituted "inflammatory statements in presence of other soldiers" under Charge III and its Specification and is complete proof of such offense.

It must be noted that making "inflammatory statements in the presence of other soldiers" (and thereby constituting the offense under the 96th Article of War) is part of the proof sustaining the charge of "joining in a riot" (under the 89th Article of War). This is not an improper multiplication of charges,but since the two offenses were substantially the same transaction, the sentence must not exceed the maximum authorized for a single offense (lid.!., 1928, par,80, p.67; CM 231710 (194-3), Bill. JAG., Vol.II, No.5, Hay 1943, par.428(5), p.187; Cf: Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, par.428(5), pp.294,295).	Ogletree's approved sentence includes dishonor-

able discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for three years. There is no maximum limit for punishment for violation of the 89th Article of War, except that death is excluded (AW 43; MCH., 1928, par.104c, p.99). Consequently Ogletree has not been prejudiced.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL	(n

12.	The accused Davis, Wade, Gallier, Deed,. Hill, Walter Johnson and Starks were found guilty of all charges and specifications. The seriousness of their offenses and the severity of the penalties inflicted upon then requires that 'the specific and particularized evidence of their conduct be analyzed in details

Prosecution's Evidence.	Defense's	Evidence.-

DAVIS

Captain Anderson testified that 'Davis appeared at the camp gate early in the disturbance and there encountered Captain Anderson. He was excited, wrathful and indignant. He delivered an ultimatum to Captain Anderson whereby he declared that he would be responsible for the good conduct of his men if the military police were removed; otherwise he would not be responsible. Upon Captain Anderson's refusal to entertain such proposition,- Davis asked for permission to go through the gate to see if the military police were gone. Captain Anderson gave such permission.

Davis went through the gate and, upon his return said:. "There' is‘a-. whole detachment there". Captain Anderson answered: "You go back to the barracks and take the men with you and leave the 13?s to me". Captain Anderson departed, and did not know if Davis and the men returned to barracks (R59,69,70-72).

Captain Milnamow saw Davis at the dispensary and asked him what he thought he would gain out of the demonstration and disturbance.

Davis stated he did not think the MPs were1 giving them (colored soldiers) a "fair break" (R119).

Lieutenant McCarthy identified Davis as one of . the soldiers who came into the crowd of soldiers at the company supply room. Lieutenant McCarthy asked him to help' quiet the group. Davis said he could control them if proof was given that the MPs who did the shooting were under guard, and insisted that he and one or two *

Captain Anderson amplified his testimony as to meeting Davis at camp gate. Captain Anderson replied to Davis' ultimatum: "You are not dictating to the United States Army". Davi3 replied: "No sir, I am not . trying to dictate.'1* Captain Anderson considered Davis? attitude as imply-, ing he. had to look after his men.

After that.conversation Davis asked permission to go through the gate and such permission was granted (R414).

Private Harry Miles was a sentry . at gate on night of 24- June. He allowed Davis to go through gate because he had a Class A pass (R150). • •

Davis testified as a witness on his own behalf (R457). In his conversation with Lieutenant McCarthy at the company supply room, Lieutenant McCarthy said to Davis: "Do something, do something". Davis asserted' that he replied that he would try but there was nothing he could do unless he could get some assurance that the 19 men returning on pass would be able to return in safety and would not be subject to be shot as had been stated -by some men. He claims he further said to Lieutenant McCarthy: "May I make a * suggestion, sir? I believe if Captain Anderson assured the men that the men returning on pass could return in safety, the men might quiet -down"

(R459,466). Lieutenant McCarthy,

Davis, Reed and Gallier started to- -wards guardhouse. About 20 yards from .barracks Lieutenant McCarthy said:

"The men are following us". Davis replied: "I do not think they are following us. I think they are returning to their quarters". Davis

.	-	53	-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

■ Defense's Evidence.

Prosecution's Evidence.

(Davis - cont'd).

other NCOs should see then under guard. Lieutenant McCarthy agreed-to take Davis and Reed to see Captain Anderson. Gallier insisted upon accompanying them. Upon departing the crowd of soldiers • followed, hade was leading the group. Lieutenant McCarthy said to i/ade: "Stop those men and take1 them back". Lade replied: "You stop them, I can not". Davis returned to the group and told them to wait for fifteen minutea and if he was not back with satisfactory answer they could do whatever they wanted (A137-140,1M6).

Upon appearing before Captain Anderson, Davis was assured by Captain Anderson that all I.Ps were in the hospital. Davis insisted that all IPs be taken from the street. Ha jor Heris then gave •

Davis permission to make inspection and Davis departed for town (R140,149). Davis returned and reported that the military police were on the street. Soon thereafter a military police armored car arrived at the gate. Davis yelled:

"I am going back to get the company" (R141). Davis had no rifle during the evening (R147). He was not disrespectful but he did not help quiet the soldiers and he made demands (R149,154) • When bed-check was made at 5:00 a.m. on 25 June the barracks were locked. Lieutenant McCarthy talked to Davis who said all of the men were in but refused to open the doors of barracks for Lieutenant I.IcCarthy (R152), Davis had been recommended for officers' candidate school by Lieutenant McCarthy, who considered him a good first sergeant (R151, 153,154).

Lieutenant Bjerke, upon hearing disturbance went to company head-

then told Hade to- instruct the men to return to quarters. ’Jade asked Davis: "How long will you be gone?" Davis answered:- "about 15 minutes". Hade spoke to the men and they did not follow. Davis specifically denied that he said: "If I am not back in 15 minutes, you-men can do what you please." Thene were 40 or 50 men following and some had arras (R459,466,467,474). At the gate Lieutenant McCarthy and Davis talked to Captain Anderson who gave him permission to go to end of Access Road which he did. He saw military police and then returned and informed Captain Anderson who said he would take care of them (R459,468). Davis testified he informed Captain Anderson that he could not control his men because they were frightened that the men out on pass would be shot or hurt,, and his men wanted an assurance that the others would return in safety (R467-). Davis further denied that he had said to Lieutenant Huxtable that -some of his men had been shot and that they would take things into their own hands ■ (R474). On returning to barracks Davis asserted he found eight rifles which he picked up and put in racks - one outside and seven in the supply room. None had been fired. He had no other rifle in his possession that night (R459). Davis then went to the dis- • pensary. .Captain Llilnamow and Lieutenant Bjerke came in. Davis appealed to Lieutenant Bjerke for a detail of ten men to pick up rifles which was refused (R46O). Davis asserted that none of the company officers gave him a direct order that night. He was only told to return to his barracks (R474). There was a rifle in hall of dispensary and some ammunition on a table (R475). Davis further denied that he said to Captain llilnamow that he thought the I.Ps were not giving his men a fair chance. Captain

- 54 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL	(H3)

Prosecution’s Evidence.	Defense's	Evidence.

(Davis - cont'd).

quarters and saw Davis in his room. Davis said two of his men had been shot in cold blood. Lieutenant Bjerke asked Davis to talk to men and quiet them down. He was asked by Lieutenant Bjerke a second time. Davis replied: "Yes,Sir", but did not accompany Lieutenant Bjerke into the barrack hallway where many men had congregated (R156). Lieutenant Bjerke accompanied Lieutenant McCarthy, Davis, Reed and Gallier to see Captain Anderson. Lieutenant Bjerke heard Davis say: "On condition that we get to see Captain Anderson and have MPs put in confinement". As the party started for main gate and soldiers attempted to follow Davis said to them: "If I am not back in 15 minutes you can do what you like" (R161). Upon reaching gate Davis asked Captain Anderson about having the military police confined. Captain Anderson replied:- "You are not dictating to us" (Rl62,170).

' Lieutenant Arcuri saw 12 or 15 men with rifles, helmets and gas masks in front of B building. Davis was. among them. Lieutenant Arcuri told Davis he should tales himself and men back to company area. Davis re- -fused saying he would not leave* until he was sure the men in Bamber Bridge were safe. Davis had a rifle which he carried at port-arms, but Lieu-' tenant Arcuri did not know whether he had helmet or gas mask (R194-, 197, 198).

\ Lieutenant Huxtable saw Davis at gate about 11:00 p.m. with Lieutenants McCarthy and Bjerke. Davijg said something about the men' being shot ' in the back and that something ought to be done about j.t, Davis further said that they (meaning the soldiers) were going to take things into their own hands if something were not done

about it (R271-274). '

llilnamow asked: "Have you had any trouble down town?" Davis 'answered: "Yes, on* numerous occasions I have been stopped by the I.iPs and asked to present my pass seven or eight times" (R474). Davis asserted he* * saw no one point a rifle at the armored car and heard no shot when it left (R475).

Captain Milnamow testified he saw Davis at dispensary but did not see him with rifle or other weapon up to 2:00 p.m. (R478). In the course of a conversation between Captain Gerardot, Lieutenant Warjackie, Lieutenant. Bjerke and Captain Milnamow, Davis said Lieutenant Sylvester was not- a good company officer, did not hold* the esteem of his men and did not display enough military bearing. None of the officers agreed with or contradicted Davis. Davis was not disrespectful. When ' Captain Milnamow asked Davis what he expected to achieve by his actions, Captain Milnamow referred to enlisted personnel as a whole and.not to Davis in particular (R4B0).

Private Ludlow Swafford'Saw Davis at the gate with Lieutenant McCarthy but Davis had no rifle (RA82).

Private Harry Miles also saw Davis at gate talking to Lieutenant McCarthy butr Davis had no rifle * * (R486).	'	'

Sergeant Eugene C. Wilks Was on duty at camp dispensary between 1:00 a.m. and A:00 a.m. on 25 June 1943. Davis was present but had no rifle, ammunition or helmet (R487,488).	"

- 55 -•

CONFIDENTIAL
Prosecution's Bviderfce.

Defense's Evidence.

CONFIDENTIAL

,	WADE

Lieutenant McCarthy asserted that Wade had a rifle while standing at company store room door. Lieutenant Bjerke attempted to take It, but Wade turned his back on tiim (R13S). Wade-was in front of group that followed Lieutenant McCarthy, Davis and Reed to see Captain Anderson. Lieutenant • McCarthy said to Wade: "Sergeant, stop these men and -take them back'1-.

Wade replied: "You stop them, Sir, I cannot" (R139). Wade had a rifle but he stopped with his men (R146,147).

Lieutenant Bjerke was ‘at the company headquarters with Lieutenant McCarthy. Wade ‘and other men had rifles (R157). There were about 30 or 35 men outside gun room. Lieutenant Bjerke requested Wade to surrender ' rifle. Wade turned his 'back ‘and made no reply (R157,l60,173,174).

Wade as a witness on his own behalf asserted he was in his barracks from about 6:00 p.m, to 11:30 p.m. on 24 June 1943 when he heard a disturbance outside. Lieutenant McCarthy came to the * *barracks and talked to the men ' . (R4B8). Wade did not hear what Lieutenant McCarthy said. He left his barracks followed by the men and Wade. It was about 11:45 p.m. Lieutenant McCarthy was going to see Captain Anderson. Lieutenant McCarthy said he did not want the men to go to the gate. Davis told Wade "to take over". Wade told the men to go back to the barracks They complied. Wade went with them Wade did not have a rifle at that time (R490,492). At time Lieuten- • ant Bjerke was talking to men several put their rifles on floor, Wade picked one up and put it in his room to prevent men from walking on it. Did not have any ammunition (R492). The arms were all carbines - not rifles. Wade denied that he turned his back on any officer when the officer tried to take a carbine from him (R492,494). The men put their carbines ‘down before following Lieutenant McCarthy (R493). Wade was in room with Sergeant Watts when officers v/ere stopped and then allowed ‘to go through when Wade cleared way (R494)«

Sergeant Fred Watts 7/as roommate of Wade. Around 10:00 p.m. Wade brought a rifle into the room and placed it behind the door. Heard someone outside tell Wade to put rifle away. Wade went out and later came back and went to bed (R495-497).

- 56 -

^FIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(115)

Prosecution*3 Evidence. (lVada - cont'd).

GALLIER

Lieutenant McCarthy saw Gallier with a carbine at company supply room door. He was hysterical. Lieutenant McCarthy shook him by the arms, but he did become quiet (R138, 146). Gallier insisted upon accompanying Lieutenant- McCarthy, Davis and Reed to see Captain Anderson.

He. was ordered to return but refused to obey and continued with the three men. When Davis was: authorized to go outside the gate Gallier attempted to accompany him, Lieutenant" McCarthy ordered him back (R139»140). Gallier took a rifle to the gate (R149) and he was the one soldier to whom Lieutenant McCarthy gave a direct order to return to barracks (R153).

Lieutenaht Bjerks saw Gallier with rifle at headquarters (R157). Gallier accompanied Lieutenants McCarthy and Bjerke and Davis and Reed to see Captain Anderson. He was excited but Lieutenant Bjerke "could not sayi he was raising against authority" (Rl6l, 163).

•	REED

Lieutenant McCarthy saw Reed in front of company supply'room door.

He was armed with a rifle and refused . to surrender it on request. He was hysterical and tears were running down his face. He said his race was down trodden and that he would rather fight for his race than he would against out.enemies (R137,138,144, I46). Reed accompanied Lieutenant McCarthy'and Davis to see Captain

Defense's Evidence.

Sergeant R.H.Wright saw Wade between 11:30 p.m. and 12 midnight on 24 June in exit door of barracks. Lieutenant McCarthy was talking to men. Wade had no rifle, although there were carbines on floor of hall (R498-500).

Gallier remained silent.

Sergeant R.H.Wright saw Reed the night of the disturbance talking to Lieutenant McCarthy but he had no rifle (R501,502).

Reed, as his own witness, stated he had been in town on a pass returning about 10:40 p.m. He saw Lieutenant McCarthy at company barracks between 11:00 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. He went to camp gate with Lieutenant McCarthy, who picked

57

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Prosecution’s Evidence.

(Reed - cont'd).

Anderson. Reed carried a rifle with Lieutenant McCarthy's permission and it was Lieutenant McCarthy's idea that Reed go with him to' the gate (R139,147). After Davis had departed for town under Captain Anderson's permission Reed was with colored soldiers in front of the guardhouse who were talking of ill-treatment of their race. Reed said in effect that he would rather fight for his race than he would against our enemies (R140, l/t.1) .

Lieutenant Bjerke testified Reed was one of the men who had rifles in the company headquarters (R157). When accompanying Lieutenant McCarthy's party to the camp gate Reed talked about his down trodden race. He was excited but Lieutenant Bjerke could not say he was raising against authority (R161,162).

Reed had made a previous written statement to the Inspector General, which on Reed's cross-examination was admitted in evidence with cautionary instruction against its use with respect to co-defendants (R507-512).

The part of the statement, which conflicts with Reed's testimony was read to the court. It was offered by way of impeachment only (R513). In part it reads as follows: "I changed to fatigue clothes. I could hear men running towards the rifle room. I went down and found out that someone had kicked in the lower part of the door to the rifle room and the carbines were laying outside the room. I took one in my hands. The reason I took this gun was because I had heard that the Li.P's were coming to the camp with machine guns, hand grenades, and riot guns. If they came, I wanted to protect myself. I had no ammunition and I did not see anyone else with any. I had the gun in my hands only a few minutes when Lieutenant Joseph McCarthy and Lieutenant Jeroy Bjerke appeared. They told the men not' to get excited, and that they would only get themselves in trouble. By this time most of the men

Defense's Evidence.

Davis and Reed to accompany him. Neither Davis nor Reed had a rifle on the trip. Before he went'to gate he picked up a rifle in the hallway of the barracks near air-raid shelter and latrine. He carried it to door of store room. He met Lieutenant McCarthy at store room door as he held rifle in his hand. He picked up the rifle in order to put it in store room. Lieutenant McCarthy said nothing to Reed about rifle. It was left standing at supply room door when Reed went to gate (R503-505).

- 58 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(117)

Prosecution's Evidence.	Defense's	Evidence.

(Reed - cont'd).

had their guns. Most of the men listened to the officers and stayed in the company area, but they-kept their guns ■****. At the guard house there . were about fifty (50) colored soldiers, most of them with rifles. Captain Anderson and LieutenAt Sylvester were there. Sergeant Davis talked with* Captain Anderson. The men around there were talking among themselves and saying they did _not like the way the colored men had been treated, and that now was the time to stand up for their rights ****./When I left the rifle room to go to ..the guardhouse I gave my carbine to someone standing nearby ***." (R513).

HILL

; ‘ ■, Captain Anderson positively identified Hill as being one of the armed men who.were in the carry-all which he stopped as an attempt was made to drive it from the camp gate. Captain Anderson's jeep was parked in Access Road. After Hill had been stopped he said to Capthin Anderson: "Captain,

I'd move that jeep if I were you."

Hill entered the jeep and tried to move it but Captain Anderson removed the keys and ordered him out of it and back to quarters but Captain Anderson did not believe Hill returned to quarters (R57,58,66,70,7l). .

Lieutenant Saniter saw Hill while . an armored car was at the camp gate about 11:15 p.m. Hill was behind a. carry-all which stood at the entrance to the motor pool on left-hand side of Access Road facing inward. Hill pointed a rifle at the armored car and told Lieutenant Saniter to-get. out of the line of fire. Lieutenant * Saniter withdrew and.did not attempt to take Hill's rifle nor order him to give it to him (R188), Hill was not on guard that night and.had no right to possession of rifle (R189).

Lieutenant Willis saw.Hill talking to Major Heris who called him (Willis)

Hill remained silent. .

Sergeant Louis Phillips and Sergeant Nesbitt Johnson each testified that Hill's reputation for truth and honesty was "allright" and that Hill

was of value to the military service (R758,759).	7	'

- 59 -

CONFIDENTIAL.
(118)	CONFIDENTIAL'

(Prosecution*s Evidence.	Defense's Evidence.

(Hill - cont'dj. _

over to him and said! "This man says he has had military police experience.

Why don't you take down his name?"

Hill then had a rifle. Lieutenant TJillis took his name but no orders were given Hill to surrender his rifle (R2641, Shortly afterwards an armored car appeared at .the gate. Hill walked over to a carry-all, then standing near motor-pool and put his gun over the hood and pointed it at the armored car. Lieutenants Willis and Saniter .. walked in Hill's direction arid Hill said to Lieutenant Saniter: "Lieutenant, you are a pretty good fellow. I wouldn't want to see you get hurt.

You had better get out of the line of fire" (R264).

'	'‘	'	WALTER’JOHNSON

- ‘ * 1 /

Lieutenant Ryland testified he	Johnson	remained-silent,

made a bed-check at 4:30 a,m. and	1

there was a man asleep in Johnson's bed but he did not see Johnson (R216)^

Lieutenant Ryland did not authorize Johnson to take a rifle or drive a jeep from camp that night (R216,218).

Staff Sergeant Gordon B. Hicks testified he saw Johnson in Manchester about 8:00 p.m, on 25 June 1943 on Brunswick Street; he was in a jeep but had no trip ticket. He wore fatigue clothes. In the back of the jeep was a 30-30 Government rifle.

Johnson gave Hicks 25 rounds of ammun-_ ition. Hicks walked up to Johnson and told him: "we wanted him to go in".

Hicks had been appointed by Colonel Conley, acting - commander of the Quartermaster Regiment, as head of a group. . of soldiers, to "gather in" rifles and "pick up" men on the street, Johnson -told Hicks he knew where some more men were and took Hicks to an air-raid shelter and then disappeared (S306,307).

Hicks asked Johnson: "What the hell he was doing dowii here with a gun?" Johnson

. - 60 -

CONFIDENTIAL

\
(119,)

CONFIDENTIAL

Prosecution's Evidence.	Defense's	Evidence.

(Walter Johnson - cont'd).

replied: "I did not take the jeep.".

Hicks said: "What are you doing with the gun then?" Hicks did not see Johnson during the night of 25 June after he disappeared (R308), but picked him up between 10 and 11:00 a.m; on 26 June near Tottenham Club on Brunswick Street in Manchester and brought Johnson to camp and placed him in guardhouse (R312,313). Hicks did not examine Johnson's rifle but delivered it to Provost Marshal (R314).

An extract copy of the morning report of the 1933rd company for 25 June 194-3 .was introduced in evidence show-ing: '	"■

"Pvt.Johnson,?/, duty to AWOL HIR"

(Pros.Ex.5; R339-341).

Purcelle T. Johnson named Walter Johnson as a person who criticized him during the time of the disturbance in camp for his (Purcelle's) conduct towards other soldiers (R66l,

662).

'	_	--STARKS

Staff Sergeant Victor J. Webber . Starks remained silent, was a member of 234-th Military Police Company. He was returning after midnight on the 24-25 June 1943 from Bamber Bridge to Preston in a command car. A ij- ton truck approached, driven in direction of Bamber Bridge.

It blinked its lights and passed .	‘

7/ebber's car and at a.distance•of about 25 yards stopped. V/ebber and three other police stopped their car and' dismounted. A colored,soldier got off the truck, came around to the. back of it and gave a whistle.. Corporal Brown, one of the policemen, ordered the soldier "to keep coming as he was covered". The soldier came to the command car and was searched. He had four rounds of .30 caliber ammunition- in his pocket, and in the truck was a 1903 Government rifle (R294>295).

Webber looked at-the "dog tag" on the soldier and it identified'him as

- 61 -

’ CONFIDENTIAL
(120)	.	.	CONFIDENTS

Prosecution’s Evidence.'	Defense’s	Evidence.

(Starks - cont’d). "	•	•

* *	• • • •

Private William Starks.He -was’ taken under arrest to' the military' police station in Preston. A month later Webber "picked" Starks "out" of a.

"chow line" at camp (R295-297).. At time of arrest- Webber asked Starks' for a trip ticket and Starks replied he was returning from a dance in Manchester and had none. He said it was customary to'carry a rifle.- He wore a steel helmet'and a "Class; A" uniform.

He was the only person in the truck , and Webber was under impression that Starks blinked the tmck-lights to make contact with someone.(R297).

• Sergeant Walton Shetley of 234-th Military Police' Company was with •

Webber at time Starks was apprehended.

He testified' substantially to the same facts as stated by Webber (R298-300,

302). Shetley later saw Starks in ord- : erly room when he was interviewed by Colonel Wallace. At that time'Starks -claimed he had been to. a .dance in Manchester (R30l). Shetley was With Webber, when the latter identified Starks in the "chow line" two days before commencement of trial. • Webber and Staff Sergeant Dumore took Starks to Preston. Witness drove the truck (R30l,302).

Starks gave a written statement dated 25 June 194-3 to Master Sergeant	’

Roger A. Pendry (R380-395) which was' , , admitted in evidence as Pros.Ex.il. .

Its pertinent-part -is asj follows: "At about 9:15 p.m., I went over to our mess hall to get some coffee and sand-' wiches. I could not get anything at the mes3 hall but was told that about '

11:00 p.m*. I could get. some tiling'to eat, I went-to my barracks and in a . little while one of theother soldiers passed my barracks and I heard' him say that two of: the boys got shot-in the back by the M.P’s. The talk of our twp boys being shot spread over camp and

I

-62 -

CONFIDENTIAL
/ CONFIDENTIAL

Prosecution's Evidence.	-	Defense's	Evidence.

(Starks - cont'd) *

quite a few fellows got rifles and ammunition. I went.up "to the gate of the front entrance into camp where quite a few fellow soldiers with rifles^ were standing. I did .not have a rifle at this time. *«**. I then went over to the mess hall and got some sandwiches and was on my- way back to the guardhouse which is next to the front gate, when a soldier passed me and said 'Don't go down. , there. Some M.P's are down there in an armory car'* I went to one of the barracks where I left the sandwiches.

X then went to my barracks where one of the boys told me to go over to one of the barracks and get a rifle. I went over tp this barracks and got a rifle out of the supply room which had been broken into. One of the fellows told me to go behind the guard house where' I could get some ammunition. I went behind the'guard house and a fellow gave me. a full clip and four rounds of ammunition.

I put the full clip in my rifle. When I say behind the guard house I mean in a room in back of the guard house building. **■*♦. I went over to the motor pool where I got the truck which is usually assigned to me and I drove . out the front gate alone. I had my rifle with the full dip and four rounds of ammunition In.my pocket. I had ny helmet with me at the.time I got.the. rifle at first. When I drove out the gate several fellows.called and asked for a lift, but I did not stop as I was intending on driving to Manchester to stay »11 night. •****. I drove about 10 miles along the Manchester highway and then decided to go back to camp as. my truck would probably be checked^.

Just before I got'back .to camp, I saw a peep coming toward me and the peep's lights were blinked at me several times.

I	thought some of.my fellows were in the peep, so, I stopped and walked over to the peepi An M.P. got out of the ' peep with a Tommy Gun and asked me who 'v

- 63 ••

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(122)

Prosecution's Evidence.	Defense's Evidence.

(Starks - cont'd).

was with me. I told him no one was with me. Upon being ordered, I got into the peep with the M.P's, and one of the M.P's drove my truck as we came to M.P.

Headquarters in Preston. When I got out of the truck to gp over, to the peep, I had left my loaded rifle in the truck.

»**'*. I left the post without a pass and did not have.a trip ticket for the truck or any permission to take the truck on 24 June 194.3." (Pros.Ex.il).

(a) The defense made vigorous objections to the admission of evidence as iJo the breach of the peace and rioting occurring in the town of Bamber Bridge (described in CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al) prior to the outbreak of violence and disorder in AAF Station #569 (R34-36,54). These objections were overruled. The defense also moved to strike evidence of acts of violence, disorder and rioting which occurred in places distant from the camp, simultaneously with the rioting in the camp. These motions were particularly directed at the testimony of the civilian witnesses Constable (R106), Laidler (R109,110) and Ashcroft (R112) and of Private First Class Miller (R259). Thereafter the defense moved to exclude all evidence pertaining to incidents in Bamber Bridge on the ground that same had not been shown to be connected with the accused who were accounted for in camp (R265). All of these motions were severally denied.

•

In considering the guilt of the accused named in paragraphs 10 and 11 hereof the Board of Review elected to ignore the effect of evidence of the rioting	and disorder occurring exterior	to	the camp and based	its conclusions on	the facts and conditions proved	as	existing solely at	the station.

Consideration of evidence of the prior riot in Bamber Bridge and of the evidence of subsequent violence and disorder-prevailing at places exterior to the camp was postponed until the cases against the seven accused named above.in this!paragraph were discussed, but such consideration is of course, equally applicable to all of the accused.

The testimony of Major Heris (R34,35,36) and of Corporal Roy A. Windsor (R54) refers to the prior riot on Station Road in Bamber Bridge in which Ogletree and Adams, were wounded. One of the first questions arising . in the mind	of the court would be as to the	cause of the outbreak	in camp.

Such events	as occurred at AAF Station #569	do	not simply happen;	they are

caused or motivated by some situation or some condition. The testimony which defense considered objectionable in this respect was highly illuminating to the court. It was thereby informed that street fighting had - previously occurred in which soldiers stationed at AAF Station #569 and military police were involved; that policemen were injured and two. colored soldiers .were shot; that the wounded soldiers returned to camp and that there resulted from this combination of circumstances the disorders and

- 64 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(123)

CONFIDENTIAL

disturbances giving rise to the instant charges. The testimony was admissible as evidence of motive and intent on-the part of the accused and in explanation of the cause of their subsequent conduct (31 C.J.S., sec.178, p.879; Jones' on Evidence - 2nd Ed. - sec.138, p.154-} 20.Am.Jur. Evidence, sec.273, pp.260,261; Cf: Ulrich vs. Schwarz, 225-NW(Wis) 195,

63 ALR 886).

The motions to strike the evidence of.the acts of violence and disorder at places exterior to the camp but occurring simultaneously with the disorders in the camp itself, are directed primarily at proof of the ten episodes hereinabove specifically narrated. It must be frankly admitted that except as to Doakes (who was acquitted) there is no,proof that any accused were actors in or were present at these riotous and . violent events. The admission of evidence pertaining to same must therefore be justified on some other basis than accuseds1 actual physical participation therein.

Beyond all doubt" the* persons who committed these unlawful acts wbre colored soldiers' from AAF •Station #569. 'There is reliable substantial evidence, that a number of them without permission left the station soon after rumors concerning the shooting of Ogletree' and Adams spread through camp. They were armed with rifles and in possession of ammunition. At least two and probably more, government motor vehicles occupied by armed men'were driven from camp. Some of the exterior acts of violence occurred on public streets immediately, adjacent to the camp, and were in fact part of the camp disorders. Others transpired considerable distances from, the: camp and there were other episodes which had their situs within’ lesser distances.. Tp determine the admissibility of this evidence on the basis of distances from camp of the occurrence of the’ several events is an irrational treatment of the situation and denies its actualities.

The legal principles set forth in paragraph lie, pp.50,51 hereof are applicable. The accused together with the soldiers who cpmmitted the wrongful illegal acts out of their presence were engaged in a common enterprise, were motivated by a common cause ahd possessed a common purpose. . The serious disorders-and breaches of discipline which arose in camp and the ten episodes within the town of Bamber Bridge were part and parcel of a single unlawful demonstration. The court was entitled to be informed, as to the nature and extent of the disturbance as a whole. The distincyasserted by’the defense between acts of violence without the camp and those within the station limits was artificial and without merit. The denial of the motions to strike evidence pertaining to the violence and disturbances exterior to the,camp limits was proper.

• i (b) Walter Johnson’s guilt is dependent upon the following evidence:

(l). The testimony of Purcelle T. Johnson (R66l,662) on cross-examination wherein he named Walter Johnson as a person who criticised him dilring the time of the disturbance in camp for his (Purcelle's) conduct towards certain other soldiers. The law Member committed error in his attempt to exclude this testimony (MCM., 1928, par.l20<J, p.125; 28 USCA,

’■ *■' • '

- 65 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(124)	CONFIDENTIAL

•sec.632; V/olfson v. United States 101 Fed. (5 Cir.) -630,4-36, cert.den. 180 TJ.C. 6.37, 45 I-.Sd.j 710.) It was admissible evidence and will be considered I/ tl.e Board of Review.

(2)	The morning report of the company which showed Walter , Johnson's absence without leave on 25 June 19-43, which was clearly admissible in evidence on the authenticating evidence presented to the court

(h339-34l).

(3)	The testimony of Sergeant Hicks that he apprehended Johnson about 5:00 p.m. on 25 June 1943 in Manchester - 60 miles from camp -in possession, without authority, of a government motor vehicle, a rifle and amunitionj that Hicks asked Johnsons "'What the hell he was doing down here with a gun?"; that Johnson replied: "I did not take the jeep," and that'Hicks then said "What are you doing with the gun then"; and that Johnson through an artifice escaped from Hicks' custody but vra3 again apprehended on the morning of 26 June 1943 in Manchester (R308,312,313).

The evidence proves that Johnson was absent without leave; that he was unlawfully in possession of Government property at Manchester and that he escaped from custody (AW 96), but these are not the offenses with which he was charged and upon which he was brought to trial, Hicks' evidence pertained to episodes occurring at least twelve hours subsequent to the termination cf the disturbance in camp and at a location sixty mile3 distant therefrom. They were too ‘remote, both as to time and place, to possess any relevancy to the offenses charged. Purcelle T. Johnson's testimony placing Walter Johnson in camp during the tumult and rioting and evidence of Walter Johnson's absence without leave'form a connection too nebulous in character to serve as proof of any participation in the offenses alleged. Under- such circumstances there is a fatal variance which constituted a cct,.d failure of proof of the offenses alleged (31 C.J., sec.459, n.245; -CM 224109, Bui.JAG., Sep 1942, Vcl.I,* No,4,'sec.427(63), p.214;

CM 120942, CM 120949, Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, sec.451(43), p.327). As to Walter- Johnsoxi the record 13 legally insufficient to support the findings cf guilty and the sentence.

(a) With respect to the guilt of accused Davis, Wade, Gallier,

Used, bin and Starks of the offenses of committing a riot (Charge II and Its Specification) and wrongfully and unlawfully possessing fire-arms (Charge III and its Specification) the legal principles involved have been fully discussed (pars,10 and 11 supra), end repetition of same is unnec-

The fact that a seriou3 riot arose at AAF Station #569 on the night of 24-'25_ Juno 1943 has hereinbefore boon demonstrated, Davie, Wade, Gallier, Reed,’hill and Starks were each at, the scene of the riot. .Their guilt of "committing a riot" is dependent upon their participation, therein by actually aiding, abetting, assisting or advising the execution, of same (CM ETC CU4, Ovlctroo et ulj. The evidence as to their respective actions and conduct has been carefully summarized above. None of them were

•• 66 -

','i”HnPMTur
CONFIDENTIAL

(125)

spectators, by-standers or non-rparticipants but each accused was active in either promoting or aggravating the disturbance. In spite of conflicts in the evidence and explanatory evidence on behalf of certain accused the findings of the court that each of them committed a riot are supported by substantial and convincing evidence. The Board of Review is of the opinion that as to these named accused the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge II and its Specification.

• Each of them, during the course of the night was in possession of a rifle or carbine and there is substantial evidence fully supporting the court's finding that such possession was -wrongful -and unlawful. The record is legally sufficient to support the finding of their guilt of the offense alleged in Charge III and its Specification.

(d) Davis. Wade, Gallier, Reed, Hill and Starks are each charged (Charge I) with (l) joining in a mutiny against the lawful authority of the camp commander (Specification l) and (2) joining in a mutiny against lawful authority of the military police (Specification 2) with the intent of usurping, subverting and overriding the authority of the camp commander in the first instance and the authority of the military police in the second instance.

Mutiny is defined:

"Concerted insubordination, or concerted	.	.

opposition or resistance to, or defiance of, lawful military authority, by two or more persons subject to such authority, with the intent to usurp, subvert, or override such authority, or to neutralize it for the time being." (MCM., 1917, par.417, p.213j MCM.,

1928, par.136, p.150; Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912,

,	XXII	A,	p.123;	Winthrop's	Military Law &

Precedents - Reprint - p.578).

«

One of the principal elements of mutiny is the intent to override, supplant or neutralize lawful authority.

"The intent which distinguishes mutiny **** is the intent to resist lawful authority in

• combination with others." (MCM., 1928, par.

136a, p.l5l).

"Mutiny has been variously described, but in general not in such terms as fully to distinguish it from some other military crimes, the" characterizing intent not being sufficiently recognized. **»*. It Is this intent which distinguishes it from the other offences ***. The definition of mutiny at military law is indeed best illustrated by a reference to

- 67 -

:.:::fidential
(126)

.‘.CONFIDENTIAL

the adjudged cases treating of that offense : as understood at maritime lair. Thus, in .regard 'to mutiny or revolt on American merchant vessels it has been expressly held that an • intention to overthrow for the time at'least ?• the lawful authority of the master is an • essential element of the crime,' that simple violence against the officer, without proof " of intent to override his authority, is not sufficient to constitute revolt or mutiny, that mere disobedience of orders, unaccompanied by such intent, does hot amount to mutiny, and that insolent language or disorderly be-.

" havior is per se insufficient to establish it." .

•	(ffinthrop's Military law & Precedents - Reprint

. - pp.578-580).	...

Winthrop discusses>the proof of this specific intent as follows*

"The intent may be openly declared in words, or it may be implied from the act or acts ; done,- as, for example, from the actual subversion or suppression.of the superior authority, from an assumption of the command which belongs to the superior, a rescue or attempt to rescue a prisoner, a stacking of . arms and refusal to march or do duty, a taking up arms and assuming a menacing altitude, &c; or it may be gathered from a variety of. circumstances-no one of which ; • perhaps would of itself alone have 'justified

•	the inference* But the fact of combination-' that-the opposition or resistinance is the proceeding of a number of individuals acting

v . together apparently with a common purpose-'

is, though not conclusive, the most significant, and most usual evidence of the existence of the intent in question." (Winthrop* s Military ' -	Law & Precedents - Reprint - pp*580-581)•	-	•

The second fundamental element of the offense is proof of. the opposition to authority .by the commission of some overt act:

'	*	"While the intent indicated is essential to

the offence, the Same is not completed unless . the opposition or resistance be manifested by some overt act or acts, 'or Specific conduct*

Mere intention however deliberate and fixed, or conspiracy however unanimous, will* fail to constitute mutiny. Words alone, unaccompanied , by acts, will not suffice." (Winthrop*s Military Law & Precedents Reprint - p.58l)»

- 68 -

^RDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(127)

"The opposition or resistance need not be active or violent. It thus may consist simply in a persistent refusal or omission (with the intent above specified,) to obey orders or do duty." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents - Reprint - p.58l; Southern Steamship Co, v. National Labor Relations Board, 316 U.S. 31,40-41,-86 L.Ed., 1246,

1256).

"There can.be no actual mutiny or-sedition until there has been an overt act of insubordination joined in by two or more - • persons. Therefore no person can be found guilty, of beginning or joining in a mutiny unless an overt act of mutiny is proved.

A person is not guilty of beginning a mutiny unless he is the first, or among the first, to commit an overt act of mutiny; and a person can not .loin in a mutiny without .joining in some overt act. Hence presence of the accused at the scene of mutiny is necessary in these two cases." (MCK., 1928, par.136b, p.151) (Under-scoring supplied).

The 66th Article of Jar provides in pertinent parts

"Any person subject to military law who attempts to create or who begins, excites, causes, or joins in any mutiny *** in any company, party, post, camp, detachment, guard, or other command shall suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct." (Underscoring.supplied).

The acts of disorder and violence, breaches of the peace, and the disobedience of orders and regulations which occurred at the time and place alleged have been described in detail. This evidence fully sustains the conclusion that AAF Station #569 and the surrounding and adjacent territory, ' including a principal part of the town Bamber Bridge were on the night of 24-25 June 1943 the scene of a tumultuous, riotous, illegal and wrongful disturbance against the peace and good order of the community. This disorder was not only a riot but the many acts of violence j.n the aggregate constituted insubordination to superior military authority joined in by two or more persons.

Breaking into gun and ammunition storage rooms and the -unauthorized taking of arms and cartridges therefrom; seizure of motor equipment and the driving same from camp; halting and examining of officers, who were engaged in lawful missions; discharge of fire-arms at military police, and the glaring and humiliating fact that the camp officers required the withdrawal

- 69 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(128) _ '

of the military police.in order to prevent further and increased anger and violence on the part of the soldiers, is substantial evidence of the specific intent to override the authority of the military police in which the soldiers exhibited animosity and a spirit of revenge and also of the intent to override and neutralize the authority of the camp commander and his subordinates in order to accomplish the ulterior purpose of attacking the police and subverting and destroying their authority. , All of the elements of a mutiny were therefore'manifestly present (CM 116735, CM 122535, CM 122396, CM 14-5286,, Dig. Ops. JAG,, 1912-1940, sec.424-, pp.288,289)

A mutiny at the time.and place alleged in the specifications (Charge 1, Specifications 1 and 2) against the authority of the damp commander and of the'military police having been established, the guilt of the, six named accused (Davis, Wade, Gallier, Reed, Hill and Starks) is dependent upon the proof that they each joined in the same and committed one or more overt acts of.insubordination. 1 This question was essentially one of fact for the court which listened to the testimony as it unfolded, had seen the witnesses and had observed the demeanor of the accused in the court toom over a period of several^days.. Proof of ^joining in a mutiny4’ and of "overt acts" can be sustained without evidence of acts of physical violence. . Speech, temperate and mild in delivery, or actions, harmless in themselves, can constitute, inculpatory Conduct in offenses of the nature of mutiny, when considered with the surrounding facts and circumstances.

A clever and intelligent person by appropriate and.insidious utterances , can incite and encourage insubordination and unlawful conduct in a manner and degree equally.effective and dangerous as any physical acts he might commit. The power of suggestion when used.propitiously by a leader of a mob sometimes obtains results that no other means.can secure. Davis,

Wade, Gallier and Reed exhibited themselyes as effective agitators and promoters of the. mutiny by the use of these subtle, poisonous means. On the other hand, Hill and Starks each committed acts of a most violent character which were obviously directed against constituted authority. The evidence relating to the actions and conduct of the named accused during the course of the mutiny, in the opinion of. the Board 9f Review fully sustains in a most convincing manner the finding that each of them joined . in and materially aided in the overriding and neutralizing of the authority of both the camp commander and military police by the commission of overt acts over and above mere expressions of sympathy with the unlawful demonstration of the soldiers. In the opinion of the Board, of Review the record is legally stifficient to sustain the findings of the court that Davis, Wade, Gallier, Reed, Hill and Starks were guilty of joining in a mutiny (Charge I and: its specifications).	.	.:;

13.	The.charge sheet shows the service of the several accused as follows:	.

70 -

^FIDEmi
CONFIDENTIAL

ENLISTED (E) or INDUCTED (i)

Accused.	Place.	Date.
Davis	(E) Fort- McArthur, Cal.	31 Aug 1940
Wade	(I) Camp Blanding, Florida,	27 May 1941
Gallier	(I) Camp Livingston ,■ La.- *	2 Dec 1941
Reed	(I) Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.	8 Sep 1941
Williams, Ed.R.Jr.,	(I) Camp Shelby, Miss.	..2 Dec 1941
>Frelot	. (i) Camp Livingston, la. ■	1 Dec 1941
Patterson	(E) Pittsburg, Pa.	29 Aug 1940 :
Hill	(I) Fort Benning, Ga.	•13 Sep 1941
Ogletree ,	(I) Fort Benning, Ga.	13 Sep 1941
Cradic	(i) Fort McArthur, Cal.	23 Apr 1941
Saffo	(I) Fort Benning, Ga.	6 Aug 1941
Engram.	(iJ^Fort Benning, Ga.	11 Sep 1941
Flagg	(I) Fort McArthur, Cal.	23 Apr,1941
Kirksey	(I) Camp Blanding, Fla.	. 20 Aug 1941
Horton	.(I) Fort Benning, Ga.	22 May 1941
Arbuckle	(I) Camp Forrest, Tenn.	7 Jan 1942
Avery	(E) Charlotte, N.C.	12 Jan 1942 '
Kendall.	(i) Fort Benning, Ga. ' .	20 Oct 19a
Mack	(E) Fort Bragg, N.C.	23 Dec 19a
Wise . '	(E) Richmond, Va.	13 Oct 1939
Johnson, Walter. .	(I) Camp Blanding, Fla.	5 Jun 1942
Roach	(E) Boston, Mass.	22 Opt 1942
Smith	(I) Camp Blanding, Fla.	4 Aug 1942
Terrell ,	(I) Camp Upton, N.Y.	22 Jul 19a
Grigg	. (E) New York City, N.Y.,	12 May 19a
Johnson, James E.	(I) Fort George Meade, Md.	9 Oct 19a
Starks	(I) Huntington, W.Va.	10 Jun 19a
14-. (a) The approved sentences of Davis, Wade,		Gallier, Reed, Hill

and Starks for violation of the 66th, 89th and 96th Articles of Wars dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor, Davis for 10 years, Wade for seven years, Gallier for seven years, Reed for nine years, H3JL1 for 10 years and Starks for eight years, are legal. Conviction of the crime of mutiny would sustain penitentiary confinement (AW 42). However, the designation of the disciplinary barracks aa the place of .confinement of the named accused is' authorized. . Pursuant to pars.l and 2, Section II, WD, Cir. #321, 11 December 1943, as amended by Section II, H.D, Cir.#331, 21 December 1943, the place of confinement should .be changed from Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York to Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York.

(b) The approved sentenoes of Patterson, Ogletree, Cradic, Mack and Janes E. Johnson for violation of the -89th and 96th Articles of War: dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become -due and confinement at hard labor,* Patterson for seven years, Ogletree for three years, Cradic for two years, Mack for three years and

- 71 -	■■

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Janes E. Johnson for two years, are legal'. The offe.nses of which accused were found guilty require-confinement in the disciplinary barracks and not a penitentiary (AW 42). Pursuant to pars.l and 2, Section II, YiD, Cir, #321, 11 December 1943 as amended, the place of confinement of Patterson, Ogletree and Llack should be changed from Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York to Eastern Branch, United. States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York. The 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, is the authorized place of. confinement of Cradle and James E. Johnson. However, the sentences of Cradic and James E. Johnson,to dishonorable discharge should be suspended during period of confinement (par.8b and c, Cir. #72, ETOUSA,

9 Sep 1943).	.	...

(c) The approved sentences of Edward R. Williams,. Jr., Frelot, Saffo, Engram, Flagg, Kirksey, Horton, Arbuckle, Avery, Kendall, Roach, Smith, Terrell, Grigg and Wise of dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor, Avery for two years, Kendall for three years and the others of the named accused for one year each are authorized sentences. The named accused were convicted of an offense under the 9.6th Article of War for which no statutory maximum punishment’is fixed, except that the sentence of death is prohibited (AYT 43). The Table of Maximum Punishments (KCM., 1928, par.104c, p.97) does not prescribe a maximum punishment for the offenses of which accused Were, convicted (l) wrongfully and unlawfully seizing arms and ammunition;’ (2) wrongfully and unlawfully bearing arms. Neither does the table prescribe a maximum penalty for an offense closely related to these offenses. "Offenses not thus provided for remain punishable as authorized by statute or by the custom qf .the service" (IJCM., 1928, par. 104c, p.96). The sentences are therefore .legal. The place of confinement of Kendall should be changed from .Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York to Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York which is the authorized place of confinement for him (pars.l and 2, Section II, WD, Cir. #321, 11 December 1943 as amended). The 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, is the correct place of confinement of the other named fourteen accused. However, as to them the sentences of dishonorable discharge should be suspended.during period of confinement (pars.8b and c, Cir. #72, ETOUSA, 9 Sep 1943).

15. The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and offenses. No errors.injuriously,affecting the substantial rights of the accused, except Cradic, James.E. Johnson and Walter Johnson were committed during the triai. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient.to support the findings that the accused:	'■

(a)	Edward R. Williams, Jr., Frelot, Saffo, Engram, Flagg, Kirksey, Horton, Arbuckle, Avery, Kendall, Wise, Roach, Smith, Terrell and Grigg are each guilty of Charge III and its Specification and to support their respective sentences;	.	.

- 72

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(131)

(b) Patterson, Ogletree and Hack are each guilty of Charges II and III and 'their respective specifications and to.support their respective sentences;

(n) Cradle and James E. Johnson are each guilty of Charge III and its Specification and to support their respective sentences but insufficient to support the finding of their respective guilts of Charge II and its Specification;

(d) Davis, Wade, Gallier, Heed, Hill and Starks are each guilty of Charges I, II and III and their respective specifications and to support their respective sentences; but the record is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of accused Y/alter Johnson, and the sentence imposed upon him.

-73 "

CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind.

10 FEB 1944

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA.

General, VIII Air Force Service Command, APO 633, U.S, Army.

TO: Commanding

1.	In the case of:

Private (formerly First Sergeant) FRED A. DAVIS (1904.6017),'

Staff Sergeant PHILIP (Ml) WADE (34-052926),‘

Private (formerly Corporal) LEROY (Ml) GALL3ER (34154-618);

Sergeant (formerly Corporal) CARROL T. REED (34145879),"	'

Corporal EDWARD R. WILLIAIvIS, JR., (34136468),'

Private First Class HAROLD F. FRELOT (34154584)",

(All of the foregoing being of 1958th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.) 1515th Quartermaster Truck Battalion (Aval):

First Sergeant GEORGE W. PATTEP.SON (13010389))"

Private JAMES D. HILL (34064160);

Private WILLIAM L. OGLETREE (34064159),*

. T/5 MAX I. CRADIC (39232918)/

Corporal (formerly T/5) HULRIE (NMl) SAFFO (34063445))

Private First Class (formerly Private) LL'VE (Ml) ENGRAM (34064059), Private BEDFFQRD (NMl) FLAGG (39232993))

Private JESSIE F. KIRKSET (34056345),"

(All of the foregoing being-of- 1945th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.). 1515th Quartermaster Truck Battalion (Avn.)):

Private (formerly Sergeant) JAMES H. HORTON (34062018),’

Private (formerly T/5) MATTHEW (MI) ARBUCKLE (34181309))

Private WILLIAM H. AVERT, JR., (14072962))

Private SIDNEY G. KENDALL (34064789),*

Private KERMIT R. MACK (14068043))

Private JAMES H. WISE (6996370)',

(All of the foregoing being of- 1949th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.). 1515th Quartermaster Truck Battalion (Avn.)):

Private WALTER (NMI) JOHNSON (34206503),*

Private First Class PEMBERTON J. ROACH, JR., (11089667),*

Private First Class ROBERT (NMl) SMITH (34245563),*

Private First Class BERNARD (NMl) TERRELL (32161543),*

Private LEE (Ml) GRIGG, JR., (12027912))

Private JAMES E. JOHNSON (33066560);

(All of the foregoing being- of 1933rd Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.). 1513th Quartermaster Truck Battalion (Avn.)l; and Private WILLIAM 0. STARKS (35207247))

(cf 1994th Quartermaster Truck Company (Avn.). 1513th Quartermaster Truck Battalion (Avn.)).

attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentences as to the several accused as follows:

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(133)

(a)	Edward R. Williams, Jr., Frelot, Saffo, Engran, Flagg, Kirksey, Horton, Arbuckle, Avery, Kendall, Wise, Roach, Smith, Terrell and Grigg are each guilty of Charge III and its Specification and to support their respective sentences;

(b)	Patterson, Ogletree and Mack are each guilty of Charges II and III and their respective specifications and to support their respective sentences;

(c)	Cradic and James E. Johnson are each guilty of Charge III and its Specification and to support their respective sentences but insufficient to support the finding of their respective guilts of Charge II and its Specification;

(d)	Davis, Wade, Gallier, Reed, Hill and Starks are each guilty of Charges I, II and III and their respective specifications and to support their respective sentences; but the record is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of accused Walter Johnson, and the sentence imposed upon him.

The holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 505- you now have authority to order execution of the sentences of all the accused, except Walter Johnson.

2.	In the case of the accused:	Cradic, James E. Johnson, Edward R.

Williams, Jr., Frelot, Saffo, Engram, Flagg, Kirksey, Horton, Arbuckle,

Avery, Roach, Smith, Terrell, Grigg and ’Wise, the dishonorable discharges should be suspended during their respective periods of confinement inasmuch as they will be confined in Disciplinary Training Center #2912 in this theater.

3.	• Pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2, Section II, VID, Cir. #321, 11 December 194-3, as amended by Section II, WD, Cir. #331, 21 December 194-3, the place of confinement of the accused Davis, Wade, Gallier, Reed, Hill,

Starks, Patterson, Ogletree and Mack should be changed from Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, Hew York to Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York.

4.	With respect to accused Walter Johnson, there was a fatal variance between the allegations of the charges and specifications and the proof.

The evidence shows that he v/as probably guilty of (a) absence without leave, (b) unlawful possession of a rifle and unlawful possession and use of a Government motor vehicle at Manchester, England, 25-26 June 1943 and (c) escape from custody under the 96th Article of War. The prosecution failed to connect these offenses with those charged and upon which he was brought to trial. legally speaking he has never been charged or tried for the offenses indicated by the evidence in the record and he may still be brought to trial for such offenses.

5.	In view of the fact that the approved holding of the Board of Review adjudges that the record is legally insufficient to support the

2	-

CONFIDENTIAL
(13-4)

CONFIDENTIAL

findings of guilty of Charge II and its Specification as to Cradic and James E. Johnson, it is manifest that the periods of their confinement respectively should be reduced to the same duration as that of accused who were found guilty only of Charge III and its Specification. The sentences of all of this group except Kendall and Avery were reduced to one year. It is recommended that the period of confinement in the cases of these two soldiers be reduced to one year. It is also recommended that the dishonorable discharge be suspended as to Private Sidney G. Kendall and that Disciplinary Training Center #2912 be designated as the place for his confinement.

6.	It is apparent from an examination of this record that the worst offenders, those who left camp in defiance of authority and did the firing in the town of Bamber Bridge when the inhabitants were terrorized and Lieutenant Ousset was wounded, were not discovered. This was due to the lack of positive action by the officers of the command. They acted more

as observers then as officers in commnnd of troops. Most of the few orders given were disobeyed and no further affirmative action was taken. As a whole,-their testimony in court was likewise inadequate. It seems incredible that company officers who had been with the same companies for months did not recognize or make note of men who committed definite acts at critical times.

I agree with the statement of Brigadier General Edmund W. Hill, President of the court, contained in his letter 19 September 194-3, recommending clemency as follows:

"It is quite apparent that their acts resulted in great part from lack of able leadership on the part of their superiors. The evidence clearly established an appalling state of discipline and training in the unit and at the station where they were serving. Many of the officers whose job it was to guide and control the action of their men utterly failed in the performance of these duties and refused to meet and accept responsibility. Had these officers exercised the degree of proficiency normally expected, it is reasonable to assume that the offenses might never have been committed, or at least would not have reached such serious proportions. Although it is recognized that these facts do not excuse the misconduct of the accused, they nevertheless serve to explain the underlying cause of the disorder and to lessen the degree of guilt of the accused."

<

7.	Inclosed for your use is draft of proposed supplemental action by the approving authority, consistent with the approved holding by the Board of Review. It is in form for use in the published action in the GCMO.

It is requested that the signed supplemental action be returned to this office with copies of the published order, -

- 3 -

^FIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(135)

8. '.Vhen copies of the published order are forwarded to this office' they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is. ETO 895. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 895).

Briga	,	J.

Assistant Judge Advocate General. •

1 Incl:

Draft Supplemental Action
(136)

;'UFIDENTIAL

In the foregoing case, the sentence -as to Corporal Julius (Ml) Magee is disapproved. Pursuant to Article of War 50the findings of guilty and the sentence as to Private Walter (Ml) Johnson are disapproved, and the findings of guilty of Charge II and its Specification as to Private Max I. Cradic and Private James E. Johnson are disapproved. Except as to Magee and Walter Johnson, the sentence as to each other accused is approved, but the period of confinement as to each is reduced as stated be low's

Davis to 10 years Hill to 10 years Reed to 9 years Starks to 8 years Wade to 7 years

Gallier to 7 years ■ Patterson to 7 years Ogletree to 3 years -Mack to 3 years.

As to those named above, the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Greenhaven, New York is designated as the place of confinement. ATI 50g- having been complied with, the sentence as modified as to each will be duly executed.

Avery to 1 year

Cradic to 1 year

Johnson,James E. to 1 year

Williams,Edward R. to 1 year

Frelot to 1 year

Saffo to 1 year

Engrain to 1 year

Kendall to 1 year

Grigg to 1 year

Flagg to 1 year Kirksey to 1 year Horton to 1 year Arbuckle to 1 year Wise to 1 year Roach to 1 year Smith to 1 year Terrell to 1 year

As to those accused named immediately above, 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO #508, is designated as the place of confinement. Article of War 50g- having been complied with, the sentence, as modified as to each of said accused, will be duly executed, but the execution of that portion of each sentence adjudging dishonorable discharge is suspended until the release from confinement of each accused.

'■?*FCTT!AL
CONFIDENTIAL

#(137)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871 ' *

BOARD OF REVIEW	
ETO 902 * * *	19 NOV 1943
UNITED STATES )'  )  v. )  )  Private EUGEIffi G-. BARRETO ) (342493^8), and Private ) GEORGE M. COLETTO (32341005), ) both of 335th. Quartermaster ) Depot Company. • • , )	VIII BOMBER COMMAND.
	Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 123, 10 September 1943« Sentence: Barreto - Dishonorable ‘ * discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for one year; Colitto - Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and

confinement at hard labor for two years. The 2912th Disciplinary Training Center.'

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.

1.	The record,of trial in the cases of th'e soldiers named above has been examined by the Board' of Review.

2.	Accused were tried upon the following Charge and specifications:

RATTR'RTO '

CHARGE: -Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specification 1:	In that Pvt. Eugene G,. Barreto,

335th Quarterinaster Depot Company, did at Station Q-104, on or about 31 July 1943, wrongfully introduce into-Quartermaster 5 .

Station Q-104, five (5) ounces, more or less, of Marijuana.	•*

Specification-2:	In that Pvt. Eugene G. Barreto,

335th Quartermaster Depot Company, did at Station Q-104, on or about 31 July 1943, wrongfully use Marijuana, a narcotic drugi

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

COLITTO

CHARGE j Violation of the 96th Article of War’,'

Specification-It* -In that Pvt, George M, Colitto,

335th Quartermaster Depot Company,' did at Station Q-104, on or about 31st day'of July ’

1943, wrongfully introduce into Station Q-104,

. five (5) ounces, more or less, of Marijuana,*

Specification 2:	In that Pvt. George M. Colitto,

335th Quartermaster Depot Company, did at Station Q-104, on or about 31st day of July 1943, wrongfully use Marijuana, a narcotic 1 drug. .	.

Each accused was separately charged but their triads were consolidated.

Each pleaded not guilty to the Charge and specifications. Accused Barreto, was found not guilty of Specification 1 and guilty of Specification 2 except the words "it Station Q-104"»’substituting therefor the words "at or near Station Q-104", of the ertcepted words not guilty, of the substituted words, guilty and guilty of the Charge. Accused Colitto, was found guilty of both specifications and the Charge. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. Each accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct; Barreto for one year and Colitto for two years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, tJ.S, Army, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for actitin pursuant to Article of War 50£*

3.	The prosecution’s evidence was substantially as follows:

(a)	Sergeant Cliff Goldsmith, Investigator of the Provost Marshal General's Department, identified Pros.Ex.l, a statement by accused Barreto (R9) and Pros.Ex.la, a statement by accused Colitto (RIO) as statements which were obtained by him, after each had been informed by him "of their rights before any statement was taken" (R34). Majoi* Paul V, Wilcox, Air Corps, witnessed the signing by accused Barreto of Pros.Ex.l. He saw no evidence of coercion upon Barreto in the process of obtaining his statement (R18). Captain Tyler M. Birch, Air Corps Headquarters, 2nd Bombardment Wing, identified Pros.Ex.la. "The constitutionsrights of the accused with reference to his ability to remain silent if he so desired" were explained to accused Colitto in the presence of this witness who also read to accused the warning paragraph In the statement. Captain Birch also witnessed the signing of the statement by accused (R19).

Each accused was sworn as a witness only for the purpose of explaining the circumstances of his signing Pros.Ex.l and la respectively (R20,26). The court correctly limited their cross-examination to facts pertaining to the taking of their statements (R21,26).

— 2 —

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(139)

Accused Barreto denied that Goldsmith at any time advised him of his rights (R2l).' He testified that on the morning ‘of 12 August (1943) he was taken to Hangar 5 and Goldsmith "started asking questions and writing on a scratch pad all the questions and answers I gave him" (R23). When he had obtained all the answers; he drew out of a drawer*

"a sheet of paper with some mimeograph in the top of it, in which I lent over and read that it was my right to remain silent or to make a statement. *******. I said not to start writing that because it was my right to remain silent and I would wait to see my lawyer and I was not going to make any statement. *******

He got mad, and told me if I didn't sign the statement it would be mighty tough for me.

******* He said 'After I have been working two or three-hours on this statement, I am not going to let it go. Just sign this or it will be mighty tough for you*" (R23).

Accused Barreto admitted he was neither assaulted nor physically mistreated (R24), He wap simply told to sign and did so without being threatened by anyone (R25).

Accused Colitto testified that he was also taken to Hangar 5 on 12 August (1943), where he was questioned by Goldsmith but was not advised of his rights therein by the sergeant (R27). He described approximately the same procedure by Goldsmith in taking his statement as was followed in the case of Barreto. When the sergeant had transcribed his notes from the scratch pad to the mimeographed sheet, he handed it to Colitto to read when Colitto noticed some writing at the top of the paper and for the first time became aware of his rights.	"It was too late to do anything then because

I	had given the statement".	Accused and the sergeant then proceeded to the

officers' club where they met Captain Birch who took the paper and asked accused if he had read it and was willing to sign it. jColitto said he was willing to sign and Captain Birch advised him of his rights before he signed (R27). Accused admitted that he was not at any time told he had to sign the statement (R28).	-**••'*

Captain Donald L. Brame, ‘335th Quartermaster Depot Company, commanding officer of accused, testified he advised both accused that any-* thing they might tell him could be used against them (R32) and that he told Barreto he had the right to remain silent but didn't remember if he had also so informed Colitto (R33)» The two statements were admitted in evidence * by the court as Pros.Ex.l and I5 (R34)«

Barreto's statement in pertinent part summarizes as followst he had commenced smoking marijuana cigarettes in Cuba and after entering the United States continued to use them; he had smoked them for a period of five years and had probably smoked fifty before entering the Army. From induction, 11 September 1942 to the date he met Colitto at the port of embarkation

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

on or about 1 July 1943 he had not smoked marijuana. At the port he met Colitto in an open field and from the odor of a cigarette smoked by Colitto he recognized it as a marijuana cigarette, Colitto offered him and he accepted a marijuana- cigarette. Colitto and Barreto continued to smoke marijuana cigarettes at the port and on shipboard while en route over-sea.

The marijuana was always supplied by Colitto*. Colitto gave Barreto some marijuana on shipboard. After arriving at Bungay, Barreto continued to secure marijuana from Colitto - in all about 25 or 30 marijuana cigarettes. The last he obtained on 7 August 1943. On one evening late in July 1943 he smoked marijuana in Ditchingham, England. Colitto is the only person who had given him marijuana since he has been in the army (Proa.Ex.l).

Colitto’s statement contains the following relevant admissions: he entered the Army 21 May 1942 and had been smoking- marijuana cigarettes occasionally fdr a year prior to that time. While stationed at San Bernardino, California, he-went into Mexico and purchased eight cans of marijuana. He gave one can to a Lieutenant Francisco of the Medical Corps; five of the cans went to civilians and he kept two cans. Occasionally he and Lieutenant Francisco smoked marijuana cigarettes together. He met Barreto at the port- of embarkation. On shipboard en route to England, Colitto, Barreto and Lieutenant Francisco twice smoked marijuana cigarettes while together and Lieutenant Francisco and- Colitto on one occasion. Lieutenant Francisco gave him less than tobacco can.of marijuana Immediate-ly prior to maHng port in England. Barreto made about 30 cigarettes from this can.

Since arriving at Bungay he has smoked several marijuana cigarettes with Barreto, Manos, Maddalena and others. He furnished the -cigarettes. He has given Barreto and other American soldiers marijuana cigarettes but has never sold them (Pros.Ex.lfi).’

(b)	Private Albert S. Gribek, 335th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified he was stationed at Bungay the latter part of July 1943. In answer to the question, "Did you ever request of Private Colitto the procurement of a marijuana cigarette", he stated he.did (R35) and that Colitto said "he would try and get them for me". The next evening Colitto gave witness two cigarettes (R36) in camp (R38). Witness had had no experience with marijuana cigarettes or with marijuana. He smoked the cigarettes given him which did not appear to be of the ordinary kind. He was not a cigarette smoker and took it for granted these were marijuana cigarettes (R36), but did not recall that Colitto stated the cigarettes to be marijuana (R38).

'	(c) Private Nicholas J. Maddalena, 335th Quartermaster Depot

Company, testified he saw accused Colitto near the latrine at Bungay, rolling a cigarette.	Witness asked if he could have one and one was given

him which he smoked*.	It made him a little dizzy (R39). He is a cigar

but not a cigarette smoker, had never had any "connection" with marijuana (R40) and had never smoked marijuana before so as to be able to make a comparison (R4l)• This cigarette might have been just an ordinary one and

- 4 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(141)

it had little effect on witness (R41). ' He did not recognise the taste and smell as being different from any'other cigarette. This smoking occurred in camp at Bungay (R40),	-	4

• (d) Private Thomas C, Kanos, 335th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified that accused Colitto offered him what Colitto said was a marijuana cigarette and and that Colitto also said he had smoked marijuana prior to coming to this theater (R43). One evening in July 1943 in Bungay, while witness was in Colitto’s tent, Colitto blamed accused Barreto for taking a can of marijuana which was missing. Witness also testified that Barreto told him of giving a marijuana cigarette to a civilian boy and girl at a pub (R44). He had smoked several of Colitto’s cigarettes without their affecting him. Although he had never seen, examined or made a study of marijuana, he. was sure the cigarettes- Colitto gave him were marijuana from what Colitto had told him and from what he had seen of marijuana when in Colitto’s' company (R45-4.6). While at Bungay he had seen both of accused smoking marijuana cigarettes which witness knew because of their peculiar odor (R46-47). -

(e)	Captain James H. Mouradian, Medical Corps, Headquarters 2nd • 1 Bombardment Wing, testified he knew a substance known as "cannabis sativa indicus or hemp" and that-it possesses narcotic properties. The Captain described some of the effects of marijuana on a novice smoker and testified it was more habit-forming than alcohol or tobacco (R50), However, he did not identify "cannabis sativa indicus" as being the same as marijuana or having any relation to it,

(f)	Private George Fleischman, 345th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified that sometime in July (1943) he was on a detail with Colitto during which time they had a discussion about marijuana and he requested accused Colitto to obtain some marijuana for him. Later "in front of the warehouse", Colitto gave witness a cigarette. Colitto did not state whether or not it was a marijuana cigarette. They affected witness when he smoked them .(R52).

(g)	Private Joe Cavellari, 345th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified he knew both accused, being stationed with them. He knew marijuana cigarettes and could distinguish them by their smell. Colitto told witness he smoked marijuana to relieve the pain in his leg (R53-54-)•

. (h) Corporal Lewis F. Otero, 335th Quartermaster Depot Company, testified he was stationed witijtoth of accused and -had talked with accused Barreto about smoking marijuana (R54) •	Witness did not see him smoking in

camp but had seen him smoking cigarettes out of camp which because of the smell he believed to be marijuana (R56). . Barreto told him of giving a marijuana cigarette .to a civilian girl. He knew they were smoking marijuana cigarettes by the smell (R55)»

1

4.	The evidence for the defense was in substance as follows*

(a) Mr. William Francis Greeves, an analytical chemist, testified that a person named Goldsmith brought him certain packets containing powder-

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(H2)

ed leaves and seeds to determine what they were. The substance was "undoubtedly hemp" but he was unable to give anything more definite about it. "Hemp grown in tropical climates is a narcotic or contains a narcotic body". He further testified*that "the name marijuana has not until recently been known to me. Hemp, the scientific name known to any biologist, cannabis sativa, is known the world over. The name marijuana, I understand, is the name by which it is known in the United States ***** (R60),

■ •-

(b) 2nd lieutenant Frank Marcovitch, CMP., 1119th Military Police Company, and Police and Prison officer of the post, testified both accused had been in the guardhouse about a month and their work had been satisfactory (R6U.	_	'

5.;	(a)	The	staff	judge advocate attached to his review a list of 4-5.

errors and irregularities occurring at the trial. Most of these errors and irregularities were of form and procedure. Some undoubtedly were dangerously close.to being prejudicial to the substantial rights of the accused. However, inasmuch as there is sufficient competent evidence to support the findings the errors and irregularities can affect only the severity of the sentence and do not require further comment,

(b)	The effort of the defense* to establish the fact that the v respective statements of Barreto and Colitto were obtained in an irregular manner and without due and timely warnings utterly failed. The evidence is clear that in the case of each accused the statements were freely and voluntarily given and that is the.major test of their admissibility (CM ETO 397. Shaffer: CM ETO 506, Bryson: CM ETO 559, Monsalve).

(c)	Proof of the corpus delicti of the offenses of which accused Colitto was found ghilty was furnished by the testimony of Gribek (R36,38), Maddalena (R39), Manos (R44)> Fleischman (R52) and Cavellari (R53-54)• The corpus delicti as to Barreto was proved by the testimony of Manoa (R46-47) and _Cter*vi (R56). The necessary foundation for the admission of the respective statements of accused was therefore laid (MCM., 1928, par.U4&, p.115: CM 202213. Mellon).

•	(d)	The	separate statement of each accused contained recitals

which were prejudicial to the co-accused. Each statement was admitted in evidence without any explanation from the law member that it was admissible only against the accused making the same (MCM., 1928, par.ll4£, p,117).

While it is apparent that the rights of each accused have therefore been infringed, the question presented for consideration is whether such infringement is merely technical or whether it substantially affected their rights. The case of CM 210985, Bonner. Judd and Riley is particularly applicable. The Board of Review in that case concluded that where there exists substantial evidence of the guilt of a co-accused, independent of any statements admitted in evidence, that such infringement is merely technical and is not prejudicial error. Oppositely if the- evidence of

- 6 —

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(143)

guilt of a co-accused is fragmentary or of doubtful character such infringement is highly injurious and requires the Board of Review to set aside the finding of guilty. The Board of Review, in said holding, particularly indicated that such action is dictated where the trial judge advocate refers to the statement as evidence against the co-accused. In the instant case there is. substantial evidence that Colitto both introduced marijuana into Bungay camp (Specification 1) and smoked it on or about the time alleged in Specification 2. Likewise there is convincing evidence that Barreto used the narcotic on or about the time alleged (Specification 2). The record does not reproduce the argument of the trial judge advocate. Tinder such situation and following the principle announced in the Bonner et al case, supra, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the irregularity in the use of. the s tatements of each accused did not. prejudice the rights of the co-accused.

6.	By paragraph 4, General Orders #25, War Department, 11 March 1918, the possession of habit-forming drugs by military personnel not ordered by a medical officer is prohibited. By cable, 6 November 194-3, The Judge Advocate General has advised the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of this office, that paragraph 4, General Order #25, mentioned above is still operative. Marijuana, or the plant Cannabis Sativa, has been recognised, regulated and taxed by Congress as a dangerous, habit-forming drug (Act of February 10, 1939; 53 Stat. 279 et seq and 384- et seq; 26 USCA 2590,3230). Webster's New International Dictionary, second edition, defines marijuana as being identical with Cannabis Sativa, and it was thus classified by Dr. Greeves, the analytical chemist (R60).	The court was

authorized to take judicial notice of the fact that marijuana is a narcotic (James v. United States 61.Fed (2nd) 912, Certiorari denied 288 U.S. 613,	1

77 L. Ed., 987; 1 Wharton's Criminal Evidence,. 31th Ed.,-sec.50, p.58). Therefore, there can be no question but what the provisions of par.4-, General Order #25, War Department were applicable to the possession of marijuana on the dates alleged in the specifications in the instant case.

In passing it should be noted that the possession of marijuana by the accused in the small quantities shown would not be a violation of the Harrison Narcotic Act nor of the Marijuana Act (United States v. Jin Fuey Moy 241 U.S. 394, 60 L. Ed., 1061) had the offenses been committed within the continental United States, and it is extremely doubtful if the tax and penal provisions of the mentioned narcotic regulative statutes possess extraterritoriality (American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co, 213 U.S. 347; 53 L. Ed., 827,832; Sandberg v. McDonald, 248 U.S. 185,196; 63 L. Ed., 200,204;

New York Central R. Co. v. Chisholm, 268 U.S. 29; 31j 69 L. Ed., 828,832).

Thevproof of.use of the narcotic includes proof of possession of same. While proof of mere possession will not necessarily sustain a charge of use of an article, contrawise proof of use will sustain a charge of possession. The "possession" prohibited by the General Order means not only a mere.physical holding, but also includes control of the thing possessed with the right to dispose of it in any manner the possessor sees

- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(IU)	CONFIDENTIAL

fit (49 C.J., Bee.1, p.1094; Colbaugh v. United States, 15 Fed (2nd) 929, 931). The allegation in Specification 2 and the proof thereof that each accused "did *** wrongfully use" marijuana is legally equivalent under the circumstances to a declaration and finding that accused "did wrongfully possess" the/narcotic. . The verb "use" means1

".to make use of, to convert to.one’s .5	1	service,	to avail one self of, to;

•	'	employ" (Black's Law Dictionary, 3rd

Ed., p.1787).

and it is.entirely consistent with the approved principles of pleading under the Manual for Courts-Martial to construe the word "use" in the specifications in this base as "possess" (MCH., 1928, par.87]2, p.74).

It was not necessary for the prosecution to negative by allegations in the specifications and by its proof the fact that accused possessed marijuana by order of a medical officer.' SUeh excepted possession was a matter of.defense, (Keith v. United States, 11 Fed (2nd) (CCA) 933) Wemstein v. United .States 11 Fed (2nd) (CCA) 505} United States-v. Union-Paoifio Railroad.Co., 20 Fed. Supp. (Idaho) 665: United States v. Cook, 17 Wall.>168, 21 L. Ed., 538; 31 C.J., seo.269, p.720).	.

• ' > ‘ *

Barreto, by his statement (Pros.Ex.l) admitted he had "been smoking marijuana.cigarettes for the last 5 or 6 years". He smoked them while at the port of embarkation, ion shipboard while en route over-sea and after his arrival at Bungay. Corporal Otero testified he had seen Barreto_smoke cigarettes he "thought were marijuana" at the warehouse (R55-5&)» Private Manos testified Barreto said he smoked marijuana cigarettes and had given some away (R44), This testimony was not contradicted.

Colitto by his_own statement (Pros.Ex,la) admitted that he had been smoking marijuana cigarettes occasionally for about a year before he entered the army on 23- May 1942. He described purchasing eight tobacco cans of it for himself and others, in old Mexico while in the arny stationed in California, of which purchase he retained two cans. He smoked marijuana on shipboard while coming over to England and since arriving in Bungay.	He

furnished the cigarettes smoked in Bungay and he gave some marijuana	>

cigarettes away (R55). Private Gribek asked Colitto for a -marijuana cigarette and was later given two cigarettes by accused in camp' (R38).

Private Maddalena also asked for and was given by Colitto a cigarette in the camp at Bungay which cigarette made him a little dizzy when he smoked it (R4D). Private Manos testified that accused Colitto offered him what Colitto said was marijuana in June 1943 while still .in the United States and that one.evening in July 1943 while Manos was in Colitto's tent, Colitto missed a can of marijuana (R44). Private Fleischman talked with Colitto, while on a detail with him, about smoking marijuana and requested Colitto to obtain some for him and Colitto later gave him a cigarette in front of the

- 8

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(145)

warehouse. It affected him.when he smoked them (R52).

The proof as to Barreto establishes that his possession of the narcotic was in the neighborhood of Station Q-104.

"The rule accepted now by practically all courts is that a variance in criminal law is not now regarded as material unless it. is of such a substantive character as to mislead the accused in preparing his defense, or is likely to place him in a second Jeopardy for the same offense.

Hence, the tests of a fatal variance arei Was defendant misled in preparing his defense? Will defendant be protected against a future proceeding involving the same charge?"(2 Wharton’s Criminal •

Evidence, sec.1028, p.1802-3)'.

' ‘ ) -

"The substitution of a new date or place may, but does not necessarily, change the nature or identity of the offense," (MCM.,

1928, par.78c, p.65".

i

"If the specification alleges the offense to have been committed ’on* a certain . . date or ’at’ a certain-place, the court in its findings may, by exceptions and substitutions, find another date or place if the evidence supports such amendments, provided the new date or place is sufficiently near the one alleged that an Injustice is not done the accused." (MCM.,

1921, par.74£, p.53).

In the case against Barreto the difference between the place named in Specification 2 - "at Station Q-104" - and that named in the findings-- "at or near-Station Q-104" --is not material under the above rules. Barreto could-not have been misled nor can he again be placed In jeopardy for this offense.

There Is therefore substantial evidence-that both accused were not only in manual possession of marijuana on or about 31 July 1943, but also used the same in form of cigarettes.

The violation by accused of paragraph 4, General Orders #25, War Department, 11 March 1918 by possessing a narcotic drug, vizi marijuana, was an-offense under Article of War 96 (CM 156134 (1923;, Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, par.454(74), p.36l).

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(146)

CONFIDENTIAL

7.	Colltto was found guilty of wrongfully Introducing five ounces, more or less of marijuana into Station Q-104 on or about 31 July 194-3. '■

The evidence and his own statement clearly establishes that on or about

the time alleged he had manual possession of some marijuana at said station. The inference is logical and just that he brought part of the marijuana acquired in Mexico into the Army station at Bungay. The proof does not show the quantity of marijuana brought’ into camp. However, such deficiency in the proof is immaterial in the face of the proof that he did bring a quantity of marijuana into camp. The variance involved no element of surprise prejudicial to the accused's efforts to prepare his defense (United States v.-Bagen, 314 U.S. 513, 86 L. Ed., 342,349)•

The act of introducing a habit-forming narcotic drug into a command quarters, station or camp is an offense under Article of War 96. Marijuana contains vicious habit-forming properties. The results of its promiscuous and indiscriminate use by soldiers are so obvious that no- detailed comments are necessary. Manifestly its presence in a camp cannot be tolerated and vigorous measures to prevent its introduction are not only dictated by ordinary prudence and common sense, but also by the higher requirements of military efficiency and discipline. The act of bringing the drug into a camp is certainly a disorder directly and palpably to the prejudice of good order and military dj.scj.pline. (MCM., 1928, par.152^, p.187). The Table of Maximum Punishments prescribed jby Executive Order of 10 December 1920 recognises such act as an offense (MCM., 1928, par.104,2, p.100).

The record is legally sufficient to sustain the finding of Colitto's guilt of Specification 1.	.	*

8,	The maximum punishment for the offense of possessing a habitforming drug is dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and imprisonment at Lard labor for one year (CM 156134,’ supr-a).' The offense of introducing a habit-forming narcotic drug into command, quarters, station or camp for purports other than sale c arries a maximum punishment of dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for one year (MUM., 1928, par.IO42, p.100). The sentence imposed upon each of the accused is legal. Execution of the sentence of dishonorable discharge will be ordered only when accused has been convicted -of an offense which renders his retention ‘in the service undesirable or when he has been sentenced to a term of not less than three years. (General Orders #37, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by par.52> General Orders #63, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942). A general prisoner whose approved sentence to confinement is less than three years will not be returned to the United States for the service of such sentence except on express orders of Headquarters, ETOUSA (General Orders #37, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942). Confinement of the accused at 2912th Disciplinary Training Center is therefore proper.

10 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(147)

9.	The charge sheet shows that accused. Private Eugene G. Barreto, is 37 years 4 months old and was inducted at Camp Blanding, Florida, on 27 August 1942 and that accused. Private George M. Colitto, is 28 years 2 months old and was inducted at Fort Jay, New York, 21 May 1942.

10.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.

- U -

confidential
CONFIDENTIAL

(H?)

'	lat	lad.

ID, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 19 NOV 1943	TO:	Commanding

General, TUI Bomber Command, APO 634, U.S. Army.

✓

1.	In the cases of Private EUGENE G. BARRETO (34249328) and Private GEORGE 11. COLITTQ (32341005), both of 335th Quartermaster Depot Company,

AAF Station Q-104, attention is Invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record id legally sufficient to support the findings and sentences, which holding is hereby approved. - Under the provisions of Article of War 50&, you now have authority to order execution of the • sentences, but your attention is invited to the provisions of paragraph 52 of General Orders #37, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by General Orders #63, Headquarters, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 providing that execution of a sentence to dishonorable discharge will be ordered only when accused has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the servioe undesirable or when he has been sentenced to a term of not less than three years confinement. It is not clear from the evidence in this ease that either of accused are chronic marijuana addicts. While their offenses are serious and merit substantial punishment, it is doubtful that they render accused undesirable persons for the military service. I suggest that the dishonorable discharges be suspended during the period of confinement.

- 1	2. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office

they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 902. For convenience

of refarence (ETO 902)

that number in brackets at the end of the orders

E. C. MoHEIL,

Ler General, United States Army, ^Assistant Judge Advocate General.

CONFIDENTIAL
#(149)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General ■with the European Theater of Operations - - - APO 871	*

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 913

UNITED STATES )’

-	)

)

)

Private EDWARD PIERNO	)

(32338171), Headquarters	)

Company, 2nd Battalion, 175th	)

Infantry,	)

' )

‘ I

10 NOV 1943

CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLI, EUROPEAN THEATER. CJF OPERATIONS.

Trial by G.C.H,, convened at London, England, 7 October 194-3• Sentence* Dishonorable discharge, total forfeiture^ and confinement at hard labor for 30 years. United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania,

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1,	The record of trial in the’case of the soldier named above has been examined by the “Board of Review,

2,	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications*

CHARGE I* Violation of the 58th Article of War,

Specification* . In that Private Edward Pierno, Headquarters-Company, 2nd Battalion, 175th Infantry, ETOUSA, did, at Tidworth, England^ on or about 10 May, 1943, desert the service of the United States and did.remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Brocken-hurst, England on or about 15 July,“1943*

CHARGE II* Violation of the 93rd Article of War,

Specification 1* <hhhhhhh*> did, at London, England, on or“about 23 May) 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away L69-30-0 in English money, (about $284.00), one diamond ring, two gold wedding rings, value about 15-C-Q, (about $20,00), the property of Sophie Cooke.

- 1 «•

GOrirlDENTlAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Specification 2s »»»»»»»», did, at Poole, Dorsetshire, England, on or about 9 June, 19A3, feloniously take, steal.j and carry away 118-10-0 in English money, (about $82*00), one pair of black and gold Japanese ear-rings, value about 10-30-0, (about $6.00), one pair of pearl drops set in gold,:value about 10-10-0, (aboui $2*00), one pair of ear-rings, "blue stones set in silver, value about 10-6-0, (about $1,20), one old thin gold wedding ring, value about 12-0-0 (about ?3.00), one engagement ring, value about 12-0-0, (about $8*00), one gentlemen's old gold ring, value about 12-0-0 j, (about $8.00), one leather notecase with a pair of nail scissors in it^ value about 10-10-0,'(about $2.00), one magnifying glass,:value about 10-5-6, (about $1.12), one leather purse with compartment which opens out like a wallet to contain notes, value about 10-15-0, (about $3.00), one leather purse with two compartments for money and s tamps, value about 10-5-0, (about $1.00), the property of Violet Elizabeth Diffey.

Specification 3: ********, did, at London, England, on or about 15 June, 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one suit, one leather wallet, one clothes brush, value about 15-0-0,'(about $20.00), the property of William Simpson Ferguson,

Specification A* ********, did, at London, England, on or about 15 June, 19A3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one mackintosh coat*, value about 14-0—0, (about $16.00), the property of Patrick Christopher Kelly.

‘Specification 5*	did, at London, England,

on or about 15 June, 19A3, feloniously take, steal, 1 and carry away two suits of clothing, one gentlemen's silver watch, one gentlemen's three'stone diamond ring, one pair of ear-rings, one cap, one shirt, one Home Safe, one green fountain pen, value about 1100-0-0, (about $400.00), the property of Arthur William Kelly.

Specification 6* ********, did, at London, England, on or about 27 June, 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one summar coat, one pair of gloves, one gold ring, three razors, ten shirts, one fountain pen, one alarm clock, one powder compact, value about 135-0-0, (about $140.00), the property of Andrei Lisin.

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(151)

Specification 7*	««**»»»*, did, at Rlngwood, England,

on or about 3 July, 1943, feloniously take, steal, and early away one brown leather suitcase with initials,"S.B.S" in black on the outside, one gentlemen's brown lounge suit, one shirt, one stiff white collar, one pair of gold, cuff links, one pair black shoes, one cricket shirt, two pair of socks, three handkerchiefs, one sponge bag containing razor and shaving kit, flannel and tooth brush, one brown fibre suitcase, one pair of lady's fawn colored sandals, one pair of gentlemen's pajamas, one pair of lady's pajamas, one pair of boy's pajamas, one girl’s sleeping suit, one pair of Military hair brushes in. leather case, one lady's ebony hair brush, two stamp albums both containing stamps, two reading books, one leather zip fastener pencil case, one box of pencils, one pair of boy’s knickers, one pair of boy's green socks, three boy's blouses, three girl's frocks, three pairs-of girl's knickers, six pieces of hair gibbon, two lady's frocks, one gentlemen's bathing suit, two children's bathing suits, two towels, two leatherette cases each containing knife, fork and spoon, two pairs of lady's stockings, two pairs of ankle socks, two old pairs of children's paddling shoes, one lady's full length mustard colored coat, valued about 3.50-0-0, (about $200.00), the property-of Stanley Barrett Sales.

Specification 8i ********# did, at London, England, on or about. 13 July, 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one brown striped shirt with two collars to match, one blue shirt with two collars to match, two pairs of socks, two neckties, one pair newly repaired brown shoes, two wrist watches, one pearl handled penknife, one pair gabardine flannel trousers, one.ronson lighter, one pair of pants, one vest, one wallet,.H2r0-0 in.English money, (about $43.00), two driving licenses, one motor car insurance certificate, one identity card, five books clothing coupons, one railway ticket, ▼alued'about 134-13-5, (about $133.70), the . property of Herbert Charles , Jeffery.

Specification~9»> **»»«»«»,.did, at Brockenhurst, Hampshire, England, on.or about 15 July 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away two albums, value about 10-5-0, (about $1.00), fourbexes of handkerchiefs, value about 10-15-0, (about $3.00). three handbags, value about 13-0^0, (about $12,00). one writing case, value about il^0-0, (about $4.00),

- 3 “

CONFIDENTIAL
(152)

CONFIDENTIAL

four hair nets, value about i0-2-0^ (about $.40), . nine scarves,.value about Ll-Q-Ot (about $4*00), seven pairs of gloves, value about M-0-0, (about $4»00), tweatyfpyi* handkerchiefs, value about LO-15-0, (about $3*00), tiro nightdress cases, value about, LO-5-0, (about $4,00), two pin boxes, value about LO-5-0, (about $1.00), two sprays, value about L 0-4-0, (about $.80), one pair tweezers, value about LO-O-6,"(about $.12),.two coat hangers, value about L0-2-O, (about $.40), one methylated lamp, value about 10-2-$, (about $.52), one clothes brush, value about L0-3-0, (about $.60)t the property of Frances Mildred Covap.

CHARGE III*' Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specification* ********, did, at London, England, on or about 9 July, .1943, with intent to defraud, wrongfully and uni awfully make and utter to Henri and Company, London, England, through Eugene Jelinek, manager of the said Henri and Company, a certain, cheoJf in words and figures as follows, to wit* .

I a

no h go

I

1 11

FRONT

No D 36858 To

London July 9.	1943

Pay

THE CANADIAN BANK OF COMMERCE

2 LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3

1

H^nrl & Co.

or Order

Eight Poinds and none

1 8t-t-

Edward Pierno - 32338171 A.P.O. 633 - U S Army

and‘by means thereof, did fraudulently obtain from the said Eugene Jelinek, the manger of Henri and Company, one Beethoven battery wireless set, of the value of about L8-0-0, English money, (about $32.00), he, the said Private Edward Pierno, then well knowing that he did not have and not intending that he should have any account with The Canadian Bank of Commerce, London, England, for the payment of said check.

He pleaded not guilty to the Specification of Charge I but guilty of absence without leave, not guilty to Charge I but guilty of a violation of Article of War 61, guilty to Charges II, III and to the specifications under each, and was found guilty of all charges and specifications.

- 4 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(153)

Evidence of one previous conviction by special court-martial for failing to report to barracks in violation of Article of War 61, and for bringing discredit upon the military service by claiming assault and robbery in violation of Article of War 96 was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 30 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, d esignated the United States Penitentiary, Lewis-burg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War

3* The evidence for the prosecution was substantially as followsi

The defense stating that it had no objection thereto, an extract copy of the morning report of accused's organization was admitted in * evidence, wherein it was recited that he went absent without leave on 10 May 1943 (R7-3; Pros.Ex.l) (Charge I-and Specification).

About 12 May 1943 at 4 Eversholt Street, Euston, London, accused engaged a room from Mrs. Sophia M. Cook who owned a shop and an apartment house at that address. He told Mrs. Cook that he was in the "Intelligence Office, or something" and that he was looking for a friend who had committed sabotage in Scotland. He wore an American uniform, signed the register as Peter Lorlente and remained "from Monday until the Sunday" .

On 23. May. 1943 (Sunday) Mrs. Cook missed her attache oase which contained 69 pounds in notes, 30 shillings in silver, two wedding rings, a sapphire and diamond ring and a	gold	watch	which	she	had	purchased	from

accused in a five-shilling copper bag. She did not Bee1 accused after missing the case, and did not give him permission to take her property (R8-9) (Specification 1, Charge II),

On 23 June 1943, Mis3 Mazy I. Gait, a nurse residing at 23 Edge Hill Court, Wimbledon saw accused at the Wimbledon Town Hall. He was dressed in the uniform of an American Staff Sergeant and he had Eagle Squadron wings' «nd five medal ribbons. On his blouse were "R.A.F" wings. He told Miss Gait that his name was Edward Pierno and that "he had just come back from Turkey, or North Africa, that day". She saw him on four or five occasions and he led her to believe that he was connected with the Air Corps (R10-U).

About 27 June 1943 Mr. Andrei Lisin, a Russian journalist, was living at the Pembridge Court Hotel, London. Upon returning to the hotel at about 5*00 p.m. on that day he discovered that some of his property was missing. The missing articles were a summer top coat, seven or eight shirts, a gold ring with a large stone, one Rolls razor, two Swedish razors, an alarm clock, & powder case and "small belongings like link studs". Asked if he recognized accused Mr. Lisin testified "I did not -know him before. I might recognize him because he came to me before, asking me for a key". He twice identified the guard as accused (R9-10) (Specification 6, Charge II).

- 5 - ■

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

On 15 ‘July 1943, as the result of a telephone call Constable Willirim C« Cherrett, Hampshire Joint Police Force, stationed at Brocken-hurst went to the Womens’ Volunteer Services Canteen, Brockenhurst, where he found accused asleep in a chair "dressed as a Flight Sergeant in the American Army". He wore five "medal ribbons" and the wings of both the United States Army and Royal Air Forces, Accused told Constable Cherrett that he had arrived on the London train that morning, that he was going to Isleworth Aerodrome to collect a plane and that he had to be at his station at Birmingham that day prior to 5»30 p.a* Upon request he produced identification papers which disclosed that he was Edward Pierno, a private in the United States Army, He told Cherrett that his ribbons were those of the European Theater of Operations; North African Theater of Operations, Purple Heart wounded in action, Distinguished Flying Cross and Good Conduct for three years regular service* ' After further questien-ing accused was taken to the lymington police station and detained* After he had been "cautioned" he stated that he had taken a suit-case found in his possession from the railroad station at Brockenhurst as he left the London train (Specification 9, Charge II), At the trial Cherrett identified certain ribbons as "similar" to those displayed ty accused.

The ribbons were admitted in evidence and later withdrawn, the defense stating that there was no objection (Rll-12} Pros*Ez*2)*

On 15 July 1943 accused was taken from the Lymington police station to the military police headquarters at Bournemouth (H13)* After being warned of his rights pursuant to Article of War 24 he made a statement to Technical Sergeant Charles J. Miller, Investigations'Division, Southern Base Section, which statement was reduced to writing and signed by accused* The defense stating that it had no objection, the document was inti Juced in.evidence (R13-14; Proa.Ex.3)«	In substance accused

atuVji that he was absent without leave on 10 May 1943, and went by train to London. On the train he took a suitcase which was in the aisle and .feiuoved a Sinall watch and‘diamond ring. While in London‘he lived mostly c.t Cook’s boarding house. He sold the watch to Mrs. Cook for three pc wia, ter shillings, and the diamond ring to a male employee of Mrs.

Cook for nine pounds 10 shillings. He left Mrs. Cook’B on 23 May 1943, taking a bag which was in her shop. In the bag he found 73 pounds in money‘and some papers including insurance papers and a bankbook (Specification 1, Charge II).

After visiting several towns accused arrived at Cardiff where he asked some sailors how he could get to Southern Ireland where he hoped to be interned as he did not intend to return‘to the army. He then went to Poole where he bought some staff-sergeant stripes which he began to wear* He also purchased a civilian suit and from then on wore both military and civilian clothing. While at Foole he stayed part of the time at the house of a Mrs. Diffey. When leaving on 9 June he took her suitcase which contained 16 pounds, 4 savings books, 2 bank books and some jewelry including rings and ear-rings (Specification 2, Charge II)*

- 6 —

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(155)

He went to London, stayed at the Pembridge Court Hotel and then at the Hyde Park Hotel where he found and took a man’s suit which was hanging in the closet of his room. He entered the adjoining room and took a diamond ring, a Longine pocket watch, a suit of clothes and a check book (Specification 5» Charge II). He pawned the ring and soldthe watch, both suits and two of Mrs. Diffey’s gold wedding rings, receiving sub- ~ > stantial sums therefor. Accused returned to the Pembridge Court Hotel for two days and when leaving gave the manager a check for three^ pounds.

He went to Wimbledon where he told people that he was in the Eagle Squadron, md then to Gloucester where he visited military police headquarters and "gave them a cock and bull story about flying home". He destroyed letters which several men there gave him to man in the United States.

After visiting several other towns accused arrived at Ringwood where he took two suitcases which he saw at the station. He subsequently sold > both suitcases and a Rolls razor -and shoes contained therein (Specification 7, Charge II). He finally returned to London where he went to a radio store operating under the name of Henri & Co., and bought a portable radio with a "burn” check for eight pounds (Charge III and Specification).

He pawned the radio for 6 pounds 10 shillings. After remaining for a few days in Horbiton he departed, after haying cashed;a third check for four pounds. He then lived at 8 Norfolk Square, London, where he "went through" a room, took an electric razor and sold it. He then went to Brockenhurst, took a suitcase which was in the station (Specification 9* Charge II), and went to the canteen where he was apprehended by the, police. When drawing th8 three checks he used the check book taken from the room in the Hyde Park Hotel and signed his own name (Pros.Ex.3).

»

A* For the defense accused testified in substance that he was legally separated from his wife and had been unsuccessfully endeavoring to stop ah allotment from his pay which she had obtained. He received a special court-martial sentence whereby he_"was fined $14A and. given two months company confinement". He became discouraged because of the allotment difficulty and the situation in general, lost his head and "just took off". He wanted to return to the army, did not know how to go about j.t, and "just stayed out longer and longer". He was returning to his organization when finally apprehended. At that time he was in uniform, wore the stripes of a staff-sergeant, Air Corps insignia and five medal ribbons (R15-17). Admitted in evidence with consent of the prosecution was a letter of commendation addressed to accused from Major General L. T, Gerow, Commanding General, 29ih Infantry Division, United States Army for services in the'operation of a Red Cross Service Club (R14-15J Def.Ex.l).	>

On cross-examination accused admitted writing two letters addressed respectively to,Mis3 Gait and to his company commander, Captain. Jamas Hays and also his "last will and testament" addressed "To whom it may concern". Accused in substanee described himself therein as a deserter, admitted committing larceny and posing as a member of the air corps during his absence^ and’wrote that he was "taking the easy way out". The documents were admitted in evidence with the consent of the defense (R17-18}

- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Pros.Exs. 4^5,6). Accused further testified that the letters were written when in a moment of stress, that he had in fact twice attempted to Mil > himself,'and that if successful he would have been classed as a deserter. Instead, as be was returning to his organization (when apprehended), he believed that he waB guilty of absence without leave only (R18).

5.	The review of the assistant^fudge advocate, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA contains comments on certain irregularities contained in the record of trial. Further comment thereon is unnecessary,	.

6.	In view of accused's plea of guilty of absence without leave to the offense of desertion alleged in Charge I and Specification thereunder, the only question presented for consideration is whether the evidence was legally sufficient to establish ^e requisite intent to desert. Accused's prolonged absence of over nine weeks was terminated by apprehension. Although frequently in the vicinity of military installations he did not surrender to military authorities. He represented to Mrs. Cook that he was from the "Intelligence Office" and registered under an assumed name.

He subsequently purchased and wore civilian clothing, posed as a noncommissioned officer of the Eagle Squadron, and e xisted upon the substantial proceeds of a series of thefts which he committed. He inquired as to the possibilities of going to Southern Ireland where he hoped to be interned as he did not intend to return to the army. Intent to desert was clearly established by the evidence (CM ETO 656, Tavlor: CM ETO 7AO, lane: CM ETO 800, Urarard: CM ETO 823. Poteet: CM ETO 875, Fazio). ,

, * ' * * * - } The prosecution introduced evidence of the corpus delicti pertaining only to the Specifications 1 and 6, Charge H, The confession of accused relates specifically to certain specifications of Charge II and to the Specification of Charge III, but in other respects is so general in.', character that an exact reference therefrom to the remaining specifications of Charge II is impossible. Despite this fact the pleas of guilty to Charges II, III and to the specifications under each fully warranted the court in finding accused guilty of the offenses, alleged therein (CM ETO 839, Kelson). The record plainly shows that the president of the court explained in detail the effect of his pleas of guilty to accused who desired .that the pleas still stand.	.

7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 28 years of age and was inducted 18 May 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months.

8.	The court was ’legally constituted and had Jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting-the substan-j tial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is Regally sufficient

to support the findings of guilty and the sentence*

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(157)

9. Pursuant to paragraph 5$, GO #37, ETOOSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years* By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is -authorized for the offenBe of desertion in time of war (Article of War 42; AE 600-375, 17 May 1943, sec.II, par*52; HGM., 1928,.par.90) and for the offense of larceny of property valued in excess of $50 (18 U.S.C,, sec* 466; 35 Stat. 1144).

Judge Advocate

Judee Advocate

\

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Array.

1.	In the case of Private EDWARD PIERNO (32338171), Headquarters Company, 2nd Battalion, 175th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the reoord of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings find sentence, which holding is hereby approved* Under the provisions of Article of War 5&k you now have authority to order execution of the sentence*

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 913. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order* (ETO 913).

Brigadier General, United States Aroyy Assistant Judge Advocate General.

CONFIDENTIAL
#(159)

* Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General

with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

NOV 1943 1

CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPFLX, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at London, England, 13-14 October 1943. Sentence as to each: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

'	2.	The	accused	were tried upon the following charges and specifica-

tions r

SHOOTEN: CHARGE: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification:	In	that	Private Harry J. Shooten,

•	Company	KBn 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation),

ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about >

23 September 1943, in conjunction with Private Sidney R. Currin, Company nB”, 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA, with intent to commit a felony, viz, robbery, commit an assault upon First Lieutenant Lawrence G. Kiser,

Air Corps, 65th Fighter Wing, ETOUSA, by willfully and feloniously striking the said First Lieutenant Lawrence G, Kiser, Air Corps, 65th »

Fighter Wing, ETOUSA, on the head with a piece of iron pipe.	•

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 942

UNITED STATES )

)

)

Private HARKT J. SHOOTEN	)

(12063206) and Private SIDNEX	)

R. CURRIN (13074463), both of	)

Company "Bn, 840th Engineer	)

Battalion (Aviation).	)

I

-1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

CURRIN : CHARGE I: Violation of the 6lst Article~of~War.

Specification* In that Private Sidney R. Currin, Company."B", 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA, did, without proper leave, absent himself from his organization at Matching, Essex,-England, from about 21 September 1943, to about • 23 September 1943. ,

CHARGE II: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification* In that Private Sidney R. Currin, Company- nBn 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 23 September 194-3* in conjunction with Private Harry J. Shooten, Company "B", 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA, with intent to commit a felony, viz, robbery, commit an assault upon First Lieutenant Lawrence G. Kiser, Air Corps, 65th Fighter Wing, ETOUSA, by willfully and feloniously.striking the said First Lieutenant Lawrence G. Kiser, Air Corps, 65th Fighter Wing, ETOUSA, on the head with a piece of iron pipe.

3.	Each of the accused pleaded guilty to the Charge alleging violation of Article of War 93 and guilty to the Specification thereunder with the exception of the words "with intent to commit a felony, viz* robbery", and Currin pleaded guilty to the further Charge and Specification against him alleging violation of Article of War 61. Each was found guilty of the charges and specifications upon which they were tried. Evidence was introduced of one previous conviction of Private Currin, absence without leave for one day, and of two previous convictions of Private Shooten, one for absence without leave for. three days and -one for breaking restriction. Each accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the- service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due and to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 10 years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chlllicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War 50&. .

A. The evidence,, uhcontradlcted except in a few very minor details, shows that First Lieutenant Lawrence G. Kiser, Air Corps, 65th Fighter Wing, was in the vicinity of Mercer Street, London W.C., at about 3*30 in the morning of 23 September 1943 when one of accused approached him from his left and asked where he was going. A short distance ahead the other accused approached him on his right. They all discussed looking for rooms when without notice or warning the Lieutenant felt a rather severe blow on his head.. As he staggered against a wall from the effects of the

- 2 -

'CONFIDENTIAL
(161)

CONFIDENTIAL

blow, one of the accused held the Lieutenant's arms against the wall and demanded his money. At-about this moment a flash-light beam was shone on the three of them and a police sergeant appeared and asked if he could help the Lieutenant who, somewhat dazed by the blow, requested the police-sergeant to take the names, serial numbers and addresses of the two accused (R7). When produced, the pass of accused, Currin was out of date. -The police sergeant then, at the further request of Lieutenant Kiser, arrested both accused. At the same time he picked up a piece of pipe which his light disclosed lying on the ground where the Lieutenant was standing, which pipe the police sergeant produced in court where it was admitted in evidence, with consent of defense, as Pros.Ex.l. Currin's pass, covering authorized absence from 1800 hours 18 September 194-3 to midnight of 20 September 194-3 was produced,-identified and introduced in evidence with consent of defense as Pros.Ex.2-(RIO). -Lieutenant Kiser and both accused appeared sober . . (Rll). With consent of defense, an extract of the morning report of-Company "B", 84-Oth Engineers (Aviation), was received in evidence as Pros.

Ex.3, showing Private Currin 21 September 194-3, duty to absence without leave.	•

The two accused - were picked up at the Bow Street Police Station and returned to the military detention barracks on 23 September 1943 by Private Edward J. Smith, 32rd Military Police Company, stationed in London (R12).

*

Each of accused made a written sworn statement to Staff Sergeant William C. Yerg, Investigations Division,.Provost Marshal General's.Office, on 23 September 1943, after each had been duly warned. The statement of accused Currin, with consent of defense, waB admitted in evidence as Pros.

Ex.4.	In It Currin admitted overstaying his leave;-that he met accused

Shooten in Piccadilly Circus, London, about midnight.of 22 September 1943 and they planned to assault and rob someone; that Shooten gave him a piece of pipe which he identified aa the piece of pipe shown him by Sergeant Yerg, and which pipe he used to strike the officer on the head at the same time demanding his money. Sergeant Yerg also took a sworn written statement from accused Shooten on 23 September 1943 which was', produced and with consent of defense admitted in evidence as Pros.Ex.5 (R14). In bi9 statement, accused Shooten recites that he found a piece of pipe on the ground near the Liverpool Street Station the evening of 22 September 1943 which he picked up and put in his pocker; that later he met accused Cprrin, a member of his company; that he learned Currin had overstayed his leave and was "broke" and that they decided they would hit somebody over, the head and rob him. He gave Currin the pipe which was the same piece of pipe shown him by Sergeant Yerg and which was later used by Currin in striking the officer on the head when his money was demanded (R14).

5.	Both of accused were sworn as witnesses at their request. Shooten denied striking. Lieutenant Kiser; said that he informed the Lieutenant he was "sorry this has happened" after he had been struck on the head find offered to "get a bobby to help him to a hotel" (R16). He admitted that

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(162)

CONFIDENTIAL

he and Currin planned to rob somebody and that he picked up the pipe and carried it for sometime and that he was about a foot in front of the lieutenant .when he was struck by accused Currin who was just ’behind the officer. Accused Currin stated that they were with the officer "at least a half hour" before the blow was given with the pipe (R17)j that the officer was intoxicated and that he struck Lieutenant Kiser on the back of the head at the time when accused Shooten asked for his money. Accused Currin admitted he asked Shooten to search the lieutenant and Shooten refused. He also admitted the plan to rob somebody and that when he hit the lieutenant on the head he intended to take his money.- He identified Pros.Ex.1 as the pipe used.

6.	The extract of morning report of Company "B", Pros.Ex.3> shows Currin as absent without leave on 21 September 1943. Pros.Ex.2 showed Cu_Tin's pass as expiring at midnight 20 September 1943. Although Currin pleaded guilty to Charge I and its Specification, the proof sustains the finding of guilty in the absence of such plea.

*	.	i

In proof of the assault with intent to rob in violation of Article of War 93» it is necessary to show (a) that the accused assaulted a certain person an alleged, and (b) the fac.ts and circumstances of the case indicating the existence at the time of the'assault of the specific intent of the accused to commit robbery as alleged (MCM., 1928, par,149 1, p.180). Both accused admit all the facts required as proof and the record evidence fully shows the offenses committed as charged.

In the charge against Shooten the specification alleges that he, with intent to commit a felony, viz: robbery, did commit an assault on Lieutenant Kiser by striking him on the head with an iron pipe. The proof is specific that it was Currin who actually administered the blow. This was not a fatal variance of proof. Shooten and Currin by preconcert design determined to commit robbery and both actually participated in the attack on Lieutenant Kiser. Both were principals although it was Currin who actually committed the assault (CM ETO 72, Jacobs and Farlev: 22 CJS., sec.82(c),p.l47; sec.88(b)l, p.158; Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, 254 H.S, 189, 65 L. Ed., 214).

7.	Accused, Sidney R. Currin is-21 years 11 months old. He enlisted at Washington, D.C., on 27 July 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months.

Accused, Jarry J. Shooten is 23 years 3 months old. He enlisted at New York City on 17 April 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months.

8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review

- 4-

CONFIDENTIAI.
CONFIDENTIAL

(163)

is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.

9.	Pursuant to paragraph 5£, GO #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by GO #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942, a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years or where he has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable. Assault with intent to commit a felony is such an offense and the approved sentence as to each accused is ten years. Both conditions of the order are present. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense alleged of assault with Intent to commit a felory (18 U.S.C., sec.455; 35 Stat. 1143)* TCar Department directive (AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941) requires that prisoners under 31 years of age with sentences of not more than ten years be confined in a Federal Correctional Institution or Reformatory. The designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, is correct.

- 5 •

CONFIDENTIAL
(164.)

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

12 NOV 1943

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOOSA.	TO:	Commanding

General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.

1.	In the case of Private HARRY J. SEOOTEN (12063206) and Private

SIDNEY R. CUKRIN (13074463), both of Company BBB, 840th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentences as to each accused, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50£ you now have authority to order execution of the sentences.	,

2.	When copies of the published orders are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 942. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orders: (ETO 942).

E. C. llcNEIL,

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(165)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETQ 945

UNITED STATES )

)

Private PAUL K. GARRISON	)

(39254537), Cannon Company,	)

115th Infantry.	)

)

15 NOV 1945

29TH INFANTRY DIVISION

Trial by G.C.M., convened at APO 29, 18-21 October 1943- Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING by the BOARD QF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been e xas&ned by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:

CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification 1:	In	that	Private PAUL K. GARRISON,

Cannon Company, 115th Infantry did, in a bivouac area near Wadebridge, England, on or about 26 July, 194-3 commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and a gainst the order of nature having carnal connection per os with Technician Fifth , Grade Richard C. Free.

Specification 2:	In	that	Private PAUL K. GARRISON,

Cannon Company, 115th Infantry did, at or near Bodmin, England, on or about 8 August, 1943 commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection per os with Technician Fifth Grade Richard C. Free.

Specification 3* (Finding of not guilty).

. Specification 4* In that Private PAUL K. GARRISON,

Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, did, at Bodmin,

England, on or about 22 July 1943, commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection per os with Private Walter J. Niziol.

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(166)

CONFIDENTIAL

CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specification 1. In that Private PAUL K. GARRISON,

Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, did, at Bodmin,

England, on or about 10 July 19A3, attempt to commit the crime of sodomy, by wilfully and feloniously taking Private Walter J. Niziol into a room with him, closing the door of same, and asking the said Private Niziol to "let me go down on you", or words to that effect.

Specification 2. In that Private PAUL K. GARRISON,

Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, did, at or near Bodmin, England, on or about 27 July 19A3, attempt to commit the crime of sodomy, by wilfully and feloniously opening the fly of the trousers of Technician Fourth Grade Albert L.

Wolfe and putting his, the said Private Garrison’s, hand on the penis of the said Technician Fourth Grade Wolfe.

He pleaded not guilty to all charges and specifications and was found not guilty of Specification 3, Charge I, and guilty of both charges and of all other specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for five years.	The

reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reforma-. tory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 50£.

3.	The undisputed evidence for the prosecution with reference to the offenses of which accused was found guilty, shows that on the evening of 26 July 19A3 in a bivouac area near Wadebridge, England accused and Corporal Richard C. Free, Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, slept in the same pup tent. During the night Free awakened to find his penis in the mouth of accused. Free struck him with his knee and accused let him go (R8,10) (Specification 1, Charge I).

About 8 August 19A3, Free awakened "in a room in the Junior officers' mess building where we slept", and his penis was in accused's mouth. He gave accused a push and he went back to bed (R8-9,10-ll) (Specification 2, Charge I).

About 22 July 19A3, Private Walter J. Niziol, Headquarters Company, 3rd Battalion, 115th Infantry, went to Bodmin where he drank beer. He told accused at a pub that he was going to the officers' mess later. When he returned to camp he went to accused's room in the mess building, lay on the bed and accused put Niziol's penis in his mouth. Niziol did not know what happened next as he "must have fallen asleep". He awoke the next morning in his own bed, but did not remember how he got there as he had been drunk (R12-15) (Specification A, Charge I).

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL •
CONFIDENTIAL

(167)

About 10 July.1943> Niziol was in a kitchen when accused asked him to accompany him to the "phone room". After entering the room accused asked him to pull out his penis and said "I want to blow you". Niziol was about to take his penis out but left when someone with a light passed by the window. Niziol "believed" that accused, who did not touch him, was then kneeling and had his hands "on the couch" (R13-14) (Specification 1, Charge II).

About 27 July 1943, during a field problem near Bodmin, Technician 4th Grade Albert L. Wolfe, Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, and accused occupied the same pup tent. Wolfe awakened during the night and found that accused "was fooling with the fly on ny trousers and had his hand on ny penis". Wolfe turned his back to him and told him to stop it (R17-18) (Specification 2, Charge II).

Captain Grat B. Hankins, Anti-Tank Conpany, 115th Infantry, investigating officer, took a statement from accused after he had warned him as to his rights. The statement, which had been reduced to writing and signed by accused was admitted in evidence, the defense stating that it had no objection. In substance accused admitted therein the commission of the offenses of which he was found guilty (R6-7; Pros.Ex.1).

4.	For the defense accused testified that he had been a sexual pervert ever since he could remember, and that to him an act of sodomy was like an act of intercourse. He had never consulted a physician (R21-22).

5.	When both the prosecution and defense had rested, the court adjourned on 18 October 1943 "to report to the reviewing authority for instructions as to further proceedings in view of'the probability of an inherent defect which renders the accused not susceptible to normal human motives, and which actually influences the normal control of his action" (R29). Attached as Exhibit No. 2 is a basic communication to this effect from the president of the court dated 19 October 1943 and addressed to the Commanding General,

29th Infantry Division. By first indorsement dated 20 October 1943 the reviewing authority ordered the court to proceed with the trial. On 21 October the court re-convened, made its findings and passed sentence (R30).

6.	Ihe evidence submitted by the prosecution, including the confession of accused fully supports the findings of guilty of Specifications 1, 2 and 4, Charge I and of Charge I, and of Specification 2, Charge II and of Charge

II.	The crime of sodomy as denounced by the 93rd Article of War includes carnal knowledge per os (MCM., 1928, par.149k, p.177; CM ETO 339, Gage).

It is alleged in Specification 1, Charge II that at the time and place alleged accused "did *** attempt to commit the crime of sodomy, by wilfully and feloniously taking Private Walter J. Niziol into a room with him, closing the door of same, and asking *** Niziol to *let me go down on you’, or words to that effect".

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Tho evidence showed that accused asked Niziol to go into a rooa with him, asked him to take out his penis and said *1 want to blow you".

He did not touch Niziol who was about to comply with the request when a person with a light passed by the window and he (Niziol) left the rooa. Niziol "believed" that accused was then kneeling and had his hands on the couch.

It is apparent that by virtue of the acts alleged in the Specification and the evidence, accused was in fact oharged with and committed the offense of soliciting and offering to commit sodomy but not of an attempt to commit sodomy. There was no overt act. The fact that accused was kneeling with his hands upon the couch when Niziol saw the light by the window and left the rooa, constituted mere preparation (CM 185778, Klers).

"Accused was charged with attempting to commit sodomy ’by offering and endeavoring to feloniously and against the order of nature have carnal' connection’ with certain soldiers; and it *as proved that he offered and solicited the opportunity to commit sodomy upon them.

HEID, That such offers and solicitations constituted offenses under A.W. 96, and the evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty. Being closely related to the offense of attempting to commit sodomy, the offenses proved were punishable as would have been attempts,•***. CM 145155> CM 145266."

(Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1930, see.1A8A, p.735);

(Underscoring supplied).

The principles involved in the foregoing ease apply to the case under consideration. The Board of Review is of the ©pinion that the evidence is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II as involves findings that accused did, at the place and time alleged, solicit and offer to commit sodomy in violation of Article of War 96.

7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 25 years of age and was inducted 31 August 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months. He had no prior service.

8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offenses. No“ errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specifications 1,

2	and 4> Charge I and of Charge I, Specification 2, Charge II and of Charge II, legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge IZ as involves findings that accused did, at the

-4-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

069)

place and time alleged solicit and offer to commit the offense of sodomy in "violation of Article of War 96, and legally sufficient to support the sentence.

9.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, General Orders #37, ETOUSA, 9 September 1942 as amended by General Orders #63, ETOUSA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of sodomy (MOM., 1928, par.90, p.8l). As accused is under 31 years of age with a sentence of not more than ten years, the designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement is correct (War Department letter AG 253 (2-6-41) E, 26 February 1941).

-5

CONFIDENTIAL
(170)

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.	
WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. *5 NOV 1043 General, 29th Infantry Division, AP.O 29, U.S. Amy.	TO: Commanding

1.	In the case of Private PAUL K. GARRISON (39254537), Cannon Company, 115th Infantry, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specifications 1, 2 and 4, Charge I and of Charge I, Specification 2, Charge II, legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II as involves findings that accused did, at the place and time alleged solicit and offer tp commit the offense of Bodony in violation of Article of War 96, and legally sufficient to support the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50J- you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 945. For convenience of reference please place that number, in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 945).

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
#(171)

CONFIDENTIAL

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

17 NOV 1943

)	VIII BOMBER COMMAND.

)

} -------Trial by G.C.M,, convened at AAF

)	Station 123, on 22 September

)i	1943. Sentence: Dismissal, total

)	forfeitures and confinement at

)	hard labor for two years. Eastern

)	Branch, United States, Disciplin-

)	ary'Barrackfi, Beekman, New York.

HOLDING by the BOARD'OF REVIEW	'	*	-

RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

BOARD OF REVIEW*

ETO 947

UNITED - “STATES

v.	_	—

Second Lieutenant GORDON A. YEOMANS (0-562396), 328th Bombardment Squadron (H), 93rd Bombardment Group (H)»

1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has

been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in 'charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.	’

*	-	'*	>	i

2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:

CHARGE I:	Violation	of	the	6lst Article of War.

Specification:	In that 2ND LT. GORDON A. YEOMANS,

328th Bombardment Squadron (H), 93rd Bombardment Group (H) AAF, AAF Station 104, APO 634, did, without proper leave absent himself from hi3 organization at AAF Station 104 from about 16'August 1943, to about 7 September 1943.

CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War..

Specification 1: (Finding of guilty disapproved by reviewing authority).

Specification 2: (Finding of not guilty).

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
72)

GDKFI0ENT1M.

Specification 3* In that «*«»»«, did, at AAF Station 104., on or about 11 August 1943, with intent to defraud, wrongfully and unlawfully make and utter to Sgt. Angelo M. Lavalle. 11045032. ‘330th Bom-bardment Squadron (H), 93rd Bombardment Group (H) AAF, AAF Station 104, APO 634, a certain check, in words and figures as follows, to wit:

25988

Ho. 1/B789237 1	.	August	11,	1943

'	•	. Barclays Bank Limited

. 5	Gurney’s	Bank

Bank Plain, Norwich

Pay Cash -—-------------------------------or	Order

the sum of Twenty Pounds ‘

120.00	.	.	/s/ Gordon A, Yeoiftans

2nd Lt., A.0.(0562396 • and by means thereof, did fraudulently obtain from Sgt, Lavalle, twenty pounds (L20), he the said Lt. Yeomans, then well knowing that he did not have and not intending that he shpuld have any account with the Barclays Bank Limited, Bank -■ Plain, Norwich, Norfolk, England, for the-payment ' of said check.

Specification 4:* In that ******, did, at AAF Station 104, on or about 12 August 1943, with intent to defraud, wrongfully and unlawfully make and utter to Sgt. Angelo M. Lavalle. 11045032. 330th Eom-bardment Squadron (HJ, 93rd Bombardment Group (H) AAF, AAF Station 104, APO 634, a certain check, in words and figures as follows, to wit;‘

• * 25988

No. 1/2789228	August	12,	1943

-	' 1 ' . Barclays Bank Limited

‘Gurney’s Bank Bank Plain, Norwich Pdy Cash -—-----—————-------—--" or Order

the sum of Ten Pounds

L10.00	/s/ Gordon A. Yeomans

2nd Lt.,,A.C.(0562396) and by means thereof, did fraudulently obtain from Sgt. Lavalle, ten pounds (HO), he the said Lt. Yeomans, then well knowing that he did not have and not intending that he should have any account' with the Barclays Bank, Bank Plain, Norwich Norfolk, England, for the payment of said check.

- 2 -

^'F'DF.NTIAL
rn,'cIDENTIAL

(173)

Specification 5« In that ******t did, at AAF Station l04, on or about 13 August 1943, with intent to defraud, wrongfully and unlawfully make and utter to 1ST IT. WILT,JAM I. STAHL, 0792758, 5th Station Complement Squadron, AAF Station 104, APO 634, a certain check, in words and figures as follows, to wit!

•	'	25988

No. I/2789236	August	13, 1943

Barclays Bank Limited Gurney’s Bank Bank Plain, Norwich

Pay Cash -—--------------------———— or Order

the sum of Five Pounds

L5.00	'	/s/	Gordon	A.	TeomaM

2nd Lt., A.C.(0562396) and by means thereof, did fraudulently obtain from Lt. Stahl> five pounds (L5), he the said Lt. Yeomans, then well knowing that he did not have and not intending that he should have any # account with the Barclays Bjmk Limited,, Bank Plain, Norwich, Norfolk, England, for the payment of said check.

He pleaded guilty to Charge I and its Specification and not guilty to Charge II and the five specifications thereunder. He was found not guilty of Specification 2, Charge II, and guilty of both charges and all other specifications. No eyidence<of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, for three years. The reviewing authority, Commanding General, VIII Bomber Command disapproved the finding of guilty of Specification 1 of Charge II, construed the dishonorable discharge as adjudging dismissal and as thhs construed, approved the sentence but reduced the confinement to two years,'designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of War. 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and pursuant to Article of War 50£, withheld the execution thereof*

' ' 3. The uncontradicted evidence concerning the offenses of which accused was found guilty, as approved by the reviewing authority, shows substantially as follows!	•	‘	.	.	,

:	’	y...	•	’	'*	*

The accused was’Absent without leave'from 16 August to 9 September 1943 (Pros.Exs.l and 2j R7) (Charge I and Specification). .

On the evening of 11 August 1943 he was playing poker in the squadron day-room of the 330th Bombardment Squadron with Sergeant Angelo H.

- 3 -

confidential
TFNTIAL

(174)

Lavalle, 330th Bombardment Squadron, 93rd Bombardment Group, during which game the sergeant cashed for accused a check on Barclays Bank for tlO signed at that time by accused. Later in the game Lavalle returned the check to accused, took from him another check (Pros.Ex.3) for L20, and gave him another L10, making a total of 120 (R9,ll). Accused who said he had moijev in the bank, asked the sergeant to hold the check until he (accused) went to the bank the next day to draw the money himself to pick up the check.

On the following evening, 12 August 1943, a similar game took place in the same "room. Accused and the sergeant were both playing and again the sergeant cashed for accused a further check on the same bank (Pros.Ex.4), for 110; accused saying "he had not had time to go to the bank that day",' The sergeant presented both checks at the bank for payment which wa3 refused on each check as accused had no account at the bank. Accused did not redeem the checks (RIO) (Specifications 3 and 4> Charge II).

First Lieutenant William L. Stahl, 5th Complement Squadron, mess officer of the officers’ mess at AAF 104 testified that accused gave him a check on 13 August 1943 (Pros,Ex.5) to cash for him (R14) and that he gave accused English money for it. Accused left.the impression with "the Lieutenant that it could be cashed at anytime but that he would rather It be held until the following Saturday. The Lieutenant personally presented the check to the bark for payment (R15) which was refused (R14) (Specification 5, Charge II).

First Lieutenant Larry R. Smith, Air Corps, 328th Bombardment Squadron, 93rd Bombardment Group, testified that the checks (Pros.Exs. 3, 4 and 5) were taken from his check-book as shown by their numbers; that the check-book was missing and that the check-book was on Barclays Bank where he had an acoount. He denied ever giving “any checks to accused to use (R17).	......	.

« \ \ .

Herbert L. Cawston, Assistant Manager of Barclays’ Bank, on which these checks (Pros.Exs. 3, 4 and 5) were drawn, testified that he had investigated these checks and that.the signer“of~t£e checks (accused) did not have and had never had, an account with his bank (R18). When these checks were presented at the bank/ payment was refused because "drawer had no account with us" (R19).	,

4.	Accused stated he "did not wish to take the stand", when his

rights as a witness were explained to him by the law member of the court (R22).	,	.	>'

5.	Several errors and irregularities as shown ty the record of trial have been noted by the Staff Judge Advocate and Theater Judge Advocate in their reviews. They were all minor and non-prejudicial. They will not be commented upon further. / '

('

- 4 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(175)

6.	The accused pleaded guilty to an unauthorized absence for 22 days and such absence without leave is also clearly shown by competent evidence.

The evidence also is clear and convincing that he issued three separate checks without permission or authority out of the check-book of another officer. For each of said checks he received money on his representations that he had funds on deposit in the bank on which he had drawn them. Payment of the three checks was refused when presented at the drawee bank for the reason that accused did not then have nor did he ever have any account thereat,

7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 21 years 11 months of age and that he served as an enlisted man two years and one month as of 6 August 19AO. Appointed Second Lieutenant, Army of the United States, 5 August 1942 at Miami Beach, Florida.

8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.

9.	The confirmed sentenceof accused includes confinement at hard labor for two years in the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York. Persons sentenced to dishonorable discharge (dismissal from the service) and to confinement, not in a penitentiary, shall be confined in the United States Disciplinary Barracks or elsewhere as the reviewing authority may direct (AW 42).‘ Designation of the Eastern Branch,

United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York, as the place of confinement herein is correct (sec.VI, par.2§, Cir. 210, WD, 14 September 1943).

- 5 “

CONFIDENTIAL
(176)

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

ID, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 17 NOV 1943	TOi Commanding

General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Amy.

1, In the case of Second Lieutenant GORDON A. YEOMANS (0-562396), 328th Bombardment Squadron (H), 93rd Bombardment Group (H), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 947. For convenience of referenceutg^W/^tooe .that number in brackets at the end of the order t (ETO 947).

E. C. HcNEIL,

Brigadier'General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 25, ETO, 23 Nov 1943)
#(177)

CONFIDENTIAL

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General ■ with the European Theater of Operations APO 871,

3 0 NOV 1943

CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPU, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.

Trial, by G.C.M., convened at London, England 19 October 19h3. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 20 years. The United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW.

RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

!• The record of tidal in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2* Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:

CHARGE I: Violation of the 58th Article of War.

Specification: . In that Private Cecil Mosser, Company A, 3h2nd Engineer General Service Regiment, ETOUSA, did, at Bishops Stortford, Great Dunmow, England, on or about 20 June 19U3, desert the service of the‘United States and did remain in desertion until he was apprehended at London, England, on or about 23 July 19U3.

CHARGE H: Violation of the 6?thArticle of War.

Specification: *##*#*#, having been duly placed in confinement in the Detention Barracks, Central .Base Section, Services of Supply, ETOUSA, on or about 2U July 19h3> did, at London, England, on or about 29 July 19U3> escape from said confinement before, he was set at liberty by proper authority. '	.	.

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 952

UNITED STATES )

)

)

)

Private CECIL MOSSER (19.096562), ) Company A, 3U2nd Engineer	)

General Service Regiment.	)

)

)

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(178)

CONFIDENTIAL

CHARGE III: Violation of the 9kth Article of War.

Specification 1. shhhbhh*, did, at London, England,

on or about 29 July 19U3, feloniously take,, steal, and carry away one blouse, Olive Drab, o#the value of about ten dollars and thirty-four cents ($10,3U), one pair trousers, Olive Drab, of the , value of about four dollars and eighty-three cents ($L.83), one waist belYf/ef the value of . about twenty-two cents ($.22), the property of the United States government furnished and intended for the military services thereof..

Specification 2. ****»■»■*, did, at London, England,

on or about 29 July 19U3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one woien shirt, Olive Drab, of the value of about three dollars and sixty-eight cents ($3*68) the property of the United States government furnished and intended for the military service thereof.

CHARGE IV: Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specification:	sbhbhbh*-,	did,	at London, England,

on or about 21 July 19U3, knowingly assist Gunner Reginald W. Gunn, H26097, No. I.C.A.R.U., Canadian Any, by wrongfully providing the said gunner Reginald W. Gunn., with an American Amy uniform in order to aid the said Gunner Reginald W. Gunn, to desert from the Canadian Army.

ADDITIONAL

CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	93rd Article of War.

Specification 1. •jhbbbk:-*, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Company D, 112th Engineer Regiment, ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 1S> July 19h3, by force and violence, feloniously take, steal and carry away from the person of Sergeant Robert D. Fairchild, Headquarters and. Headquarters Squadron, 8th Bomber Command, ETOUSA, one Gruen , wrist-watch of the value of about twenty dollars ($20.00), and six pounds and ten shillings in English money of the value of about twenty-six dollars ($26.00), the property of Sergeant Robert D. Fairchild, Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 8th Bomber Command, ETOUSA.

Specification 2. ^hhhhhhj-, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Company D, 112th Engineer Regiment, ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on or about 1 August 19U3, feloniously take, steal and carry away five dollars ($3*00) in .the money of the United States, one money order of the value of about two dollars ($2.00), and one one wallet and personal papers of the value of about one dollars ($l.n0), the property of Technician Fourth Grade

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2 -
(179)

■.^HDENTIAL

/

Ernest W. Kodera, 8l8th Engineer Battalion (Aviation), ETOUSA.

Specification 3• ***-***#, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Compary D, 112th Engineer Regiment,

ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on or about 1 August 19U3, feloniously take, steal and carry away one dollar ($1.00) in the money of the .United States, seven shillings in English money of the value of about one dollar and forty cents ($1.U0), one leather wallet and personal papers of the value of about one dollar ($1.00), the property of Sergeant Henry T. Knittel, 818th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA.

Specification U. ****»«*, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Compaq- D, 112th Engineer Regiment,

ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on or about 1 August 19h3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one leather wallet of the value of about one dollar ($1.00), the property of Corporal Joseph Reitano, 8l8th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA.

Specification 3. *hhkbhc-#, in conjunction with Private William Nolan, Company D, 112th Engineer Regiment,

ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on or about 1 August 19U3, feloniously take, steal and carry away one Monroe wrist-watch of the value of about twenty-five dollars ($23*00), the property of Technician Fourth Grade Clarence J. Zogleman, §l8th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA.

Specification 6. (Bindings of not guilty.).

Specification 7*	:***#*»Ht,	in conjunction with Private

William Nolan, Company D, 112th Engineer Regiment,

ETOUSA, did, at Bishops-Stortford, England, on -or about 1 August 19U3, feloniously take, steal and carry away nine pounds (L9) in English money of the value of about thirty-six dollars ($36.00), the property of Private First. Class. James C. Ellis,

818th Engineer Battalion, ETOUSA.

Specification 8. (Findings of not guilty).

He declined to plead to the charges and specifications and pleas of not guilty to all charges and specifications were entered on his behalf. He was found guilty of all charges and of all specifications except Specifications 6 and 8, Additional Charge, of which he was found not guilty. Evidence of one previous conviction for absence without leave for two days in violation of Article of War 61 was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for 20 years. The reviewing authority approved the findings of the court with the following modifications: Specification 1, Additional Charge, except the words "one Gm en wrist-watch of the value of about twnnty dollars ($20)", substituting therefor the words, "one Gruen wrist-watch, value unknown"] Specification 3, Additional Charge, except the words "one Monroe wrist-watch of the value of about twenty-five dollars ($23)", substituting therefor the words "one Monroe wrist-watch of the -value of less than twenty dollars"] Specification U,

CONFIDENTIAL
(iso)	oowwamrt

Additional Charge except the words Mone leather wallet of the value of about one dollar ($1)", substituting therefor the words "one leather wallet, value unknown"; Specifications 2, 3, U, 5 and 7, Additional Charge except the words "Bishops-Stortford", substituting therefor the words "Dunraow, England". He approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewis burg, Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial, for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War $0|.

3* The evidence for the prosecution concerning the offenses of which accused was found guilty was as follows:

The defense stating that it had no objection thereto, a certified extract copy of the morning report of accused's organization was admitted in evidence which contained the entry:

»

"20 June 19h3 - Pvt Llosser fr duty to AWOL,

22U5 hrs. TOS" (R8; Pros.Ex.1).

On 23 July 19U3 on Dean Street, Soho, London, England, Sergeant John L.

Kozak, Investigations Division, Provost Marshal General's Detachment,

APO 887 was looking for a Canadian wearing an American uniform. He observed accused talking to a Canadian Highlander. The two soldiers were joined by a man named Reginald Gunn. When asked by Kozak for his pass accused produced a pass issued in the name of Carl E. Lorraine. He and Gunn were taken to the Investigation Division, Provost Marshal General's Detachment where Gunn admitted he was a "Canadian deserter". Accused insisted his name was Lorraine. When the name. Mosser was found on his clothing he said that he had borrowed the uniform from a Corporal Mosser. Upon further questioning he admitted that he was Private Cecil Mosser, and he was then taken to the guardhouse section of the Headquarters Detachment, CBS., SOS, APO 887. The defense stating that it had no objection, the pass bearing the name Carl E. Lorraine was admitted in evidence (P.9-10; Pros.Ex.2) (Charge 1 and Specification).

About 23 July 19U3, accused was placed in confinement in the guardhouse, CBS, SOS, ETOUSA (Rll). About 29 July, Corporal Edward J. Meade, Guardhouse Section,. APO 887 was in charge of a work detail composed of prisoners from the guardhouse of which accused was a member. Accused and a prisoner named Nolan were washing windows.in a building situated about 10 miles from the guardhouse. Meade went downstairs to obtain some rags. When he returned, he took a roll call of the prisoners and found that accused and Nolan were missing. He had given them no permission to leave (Rll-12) (Charge II and Specification).

Reginald ¥. Gunn, H26097, Gunner, No.l Canadian Army Reinforcement Unit, testified that at the time of the trial, he was serving a three-year sentence for absence without leave. On 23 July 19U3 he was in a status of absent without leave and was with accused in Soho, London. Gunn was then wearing a United States army uniform consisting of a tunic, trousers, shirt, .tie and forage cap which he had borrowed from accused (R16-17) (Charge IV and Specification).

- h -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL	(181)

About 29 July 19U3* Technicians Fifth Grade John B. Nurdin, Jr., and William K. Garrett, both of Headquarters Detachment, CBS were billeted in Room 2A, U3 Green Street (London). About that date Nurdin found that there was missing certain Government property which had been issued to him, consisting of one blouse, two pairs of W0.D" trousers, a tie and a belt. Garrett found missing one wool "O.D" shirt which was also Government property and which had been issued to him. Neither man had given accused permission to take the property. At the trial Nurdin identified a blouse bearing the name "Lambert** as the blouse which was missing. It was admitted in evidence and later withdrawn, the defense having withdrawn a previous objection thereto. The prosecution asked the court to take judicial notice of AR 30-3000, stating that a blouse was valued therein at &10.3U, a pair of "0.D" trousers at $U.83, a waist belt at $.22 and a wool "O.D" shirt at 03.68. There was no indication as to whether the court granted the request. (R13-l£; Pros.Ex.3) (Specifications 1 and .2, Charge III).

About 15 July 19U3 Sergeant Robert D. Fairchild, Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, VIII Bomber Command went to the Fitzroy.Tavern,

London where he ordered "a Scotch and a glass of bitter, beer". He saw a red-haired girl and asked if she would like a drink. She accepted and had a drink of Scotch and a glass of beer. The girl had a second glass of beer and Fairchild•ordered another drink of Scotch and another glass of beer. He went to the lavatory, returned to finish his drink and could remember nothing further until he "momentarily" awakened that night in a British hospital. He was then transferred to the 16th Station Hospital.

He missed his Gruen wrist-watch, and his wallet containing about seven pounds in English money, his pass and several other personal items. At the trial he was shown a wrist-watch which he had never seen before (R17-18). It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that if First lieutenant Louis TIT. Shabat, Hedical Corps, 16th Station Hospital were present he would testify that his findings with regard to Fairchild weret

"Multiple bruises, abrasions, cuts, and lacerations about scalp and jaw, caused by unknown assailant. Soldier was dazed and ran temperature of 102 for three days due to head blow. Temperature above normal for three days. Diagnosis:	(1)	Lacerations,

scalp, mild; (2) Contusions, scalp, severe;

(3) Contusions, jaw, severe; (U) Contusions, lower lip, severe; (5) Concussion, cerebral, severe". (R19; Specification 1, Additional Charge).

About 1 August 19U3 the following members of the 818th Engineer Battalion were stationed in or near Dunmow, England:	Technician	Fourth

Grade Ernest W. Kodera', Sergeant Henry T. Knitted, Corporal Joseph Reitano, Technician Fourth Grade Clarence J. Zogleman,.Private First Class James C. Fills. About that date each man discovered that certain property belonging to him was missing. Kodera*s property, which was in his trouser's pocket next to his bed consisted of a black leather wallet containing a five-dollar American bill, a two-dollar money order, a canteen check and some other personal property (R19) (Specification 2, Additional Charge). Knittel missed from his trousers a wallet, an American dollar bill, a "FX".card,

5 - CONFIDENTIAL
(182)

MIDENT1AL

about six shillings in change and some photographs (R19-20) (Specification 3, Additional Charge). Reitano's property consisted of hisblack leather wallet, marked with his initials " J.R" which contained a "PX" card, driver*s license, and a few personal photographs (R20-21) (Specification U,

Additional Charge). Zogleman missed a .silver llonroe wrist-watch which had been in his shirt pocket (R21) (Specification 3, Additional Charge), and Ellis missed his wallet containing a passport and nine pounds (R21-22) (Specification 7, Additional Charge).

On 2U July and on .27 September 19U3, Kozak took statements from accused who had previously been warned as to his rights. The statements, which were reduced to writing and signed by accused were admitted in evidence with the exception of certain portions bracketted in red pencil (R23-2Uj Pros.Exs. U, 5)*

In substance accused stated therein that he "deserted** his organization about 19 June 19U3 at Bishops-Stortford, Great Dunmow, and went to London with 23 pounds in his pocket. After spending this money he lived on the earnings of prostitutes, on money he received from a girl acquaintance and by "panhandling" from American soldiers. About four weeks prior to 2U July he asked a soldier to request "the boys in hut seventeen" to bring some of his clothing and toilet articles to a London restaurant. Thereafter some things were left for him at the restaurant including a complete uniform (Pros.Ex.U) (Charge 1 and Specification).

•> ■

In a bar in Soho he met a Canadian in civilian clothes whose name and identity he later discovered to be W.R. Gunn, H26097, a gunner in the • Canadian any who was a deserter and escaped prisoner. Gunn expressed a desire for an American uniform which would make it easier for him to escape detection. Accused agreed to let Gunn wear his extra uniform, and on 21 July 19U3 left it for him at a bar where Gunn later picked it up. The two men. met at the bar, secured some passes from an American soldier, filled them in with "fake" names and serial numbers and registered at the Victory Club (Pros.Ex.3) (Charge TV and Specification).

On 13 July 19U3 accused and Private William Nolan, 112th Engineer. Regiment, Company D, and a red haired, girl named "Violet" went to the Fitzroy Tavern, London. They planned that the girl should "pick up" an American soldier with a lot of money, and put some aspirin in his drink when he was not looking "to make him groggy". Nolan and accused were to rob him when he left the pub. At the Fitzroy Tavern the girl became acquainted with an American Sergeant and put two aspirin tablets in his drink when he went to the lavatory. When they left the pub, Nolan and accused followed the girl and the sergeant to an alley which had been previously selected as the place to commit the robbery. Accused hit the sergeant on the head with a rock and both he and Nolan then knocked him unconscious. Accused took his wallet and.Nolan removed his wrist-watch.

They divided the proceeds, accused receiving two pounds ten shillings, the girl two pounds, ard Nolan two pounds and the watch (Pros.Ex.3) (Specification 1, Additional Charge).

• * •

Accused met Nolan again when he was sent to the guardhouse, Headquarters

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(183)

Detachment, CBS, SOS, APO 887. On 29 July 19U3 he and Nolan were members of a detail of prisoners cleaning windows at premises occupied by llith Port Battalion. The two men were on a high first floor and escaped by going down the rainpipe (Pros.Ex.5) (Specification, Charge II).

They went to some billets on Green Street, London and stole two ' complete uniforms (Pros.Ex.5) (Specifications 1 and 2, Charge Hi).

On 30 July 19U3 accused and Nolan 'entered a building occupied by the 8l8th Engineer Battalion at Bishops-Stortford, Great Dunmow, -where they stole the wallets of two men who were asleep. One wallet was empty, and the other contained three one-dollar bills aid a five-dollar bill.

Accused also took seven shillings from the trousers of one of the soldiers. They threw away the papers and kept the wallets (Pros.Ex.5)•

On the night of 31 July 19U3 Nolan and accused returned to the same camp and sifter the men were asleep, entered about six tents and stole some wallets, one of which, plain brown in color and bearing the initials "J.M", contained three American one-dollar bills. From these thefts they realised about twelve pounds. He did not recall how many wallets they took nor was he sure thsit Nolan informed him of all the articles which he had taken (Pros.Ex.5).

They returned to Bishops Stortford the following morning (1 August), spent the day drinking, became very drunk and separated. Nolan was trying to sell things to soldiers. On 2 August, accused woke up in the railroad station at Stanstead, went to Cambridge with another soldier where they did "quite a lot of drinking". He then went to Oxford where he was picked up by the military police and sent to the 2nd General Hospital where he was identified by Sergeant Kozak. He was sent to APO 887 where he was questioned by Kozak at;', the Investigation Division (Pros.Ex.5).

U. Upon being advised of his rights accused elected to remain - silent (R2U-2$).

■ £.	(a).	The trial judge advocate requested the court to take

judicial notice of Army Regulation 30-3000 (Quartermaster Corps price list of clothing and equipage) stating that it valued the articles described in Specifications 1 and 2 of Charge III as alleged therein. There was no indication in the record of trial as to whether or not the court acceded to this request (Rl3)• As' accused was found guilty of the specifications it may be presumed that the court did in fact take judicial notice of the provisions of the army regulation concerned. Similarly it may be assumed that the court granted the request of the trial judge advocate that it take judicial notice of the fact that the value of the English pound -was &U.03 (R22).	,

(b). Before accused pleaded to the charges and specifications the defense counsel moved to strike out "all the specifications after the first charge under the 93rd Article of War on the grounds that each specification after the first alleges a separate charge, a duplicity of crimes specified, instead of being separately charged, and the_ effect of such duplicity is

- 7 -

CONFJPENTjAL.
CONFIDENTIAL

(184)

prejudicial to the defendant". It was maintained that accused "might have a better chance" if he were tried separately on the specifications contained under the charge alleging a violation of the 93rd Article of war. The motion was denied (R6-7)• The contention by the defense that accused was entitled to a separate trial with respect to the Additional Charge and the specifications thereunder is, of course, without merit.

Multiplicity of charges and specifications should be avoided.

"The theft of several articles at the same time and place and in the same manner constitutes but one larceny. CM 161*838;	166326;	185535 (1929);

192790 (1930)" (Dig. Ops. JAG. 1912-191*0, sec. 1*28

(11*), p.298).

"V7here the larceny of several articles is substantially one’ transaction, it is a single larceny even though the articles belong to different persons. Thus, where a thief *** goes into a room and takes property belonging to various persons, there is but one larceny, which should be alleged in but one, specification".

(ICM., 1928, par. ll*9£, p.171).	'	*

The articles described in the specifications of the Additional Charge were alleged therein to have "been stolen at the same place on or about 1 August 19U3, and the evidence shows that the respective owners of such articles found them to-be missing on or about that date. The statement by aocused shows that he and Nolan on the night of 30 July stole the wallets of two men who were asleep in the same building, and that the following night they entered about six tents at the same camp where men v;ere sleeping and took'several wallets. The period of confinement imposed was twenty years. Assuming but not deciding that because of the foregoing circumstances the various thefts should have been at least partially consolidated, the Board of Review is of’ the opinion that any multiplicity involved did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused in view of the allegations of other and serious offenses for one of which the court could legally have imposed the death sentence -■ (desertion in violation of Article of VTar 58).

• • *

6.	It was established by the evidence, and by his own statement, that accused absented himself without leave at the place and time alleged and that such absence was terminated by apprehension in London 33 ddys later. Although he was frequently in the vicinity of military installations he did not surrender to military authority. During his absence he lived on the earnings of prostitutes, on money received from a girl acquaintance, by "panhandling" from American soldiers, and committed the crime of robbery. At his request, a complete uniform and some other articles were brought to London for his use. When apprehended he produced a'pass issued in the name of Carl E. Lorraine and insisted that his’name was Lorraine. "When the name of Mosser was found on- his clothing he said that he had borrowed the uniform from a Corporal Mosser, but upon further questioning finally admitted that he was Private Cecil Mosser. Intent to desert was fully established

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(185)

(CM ETC 913, Pierno; CM ETO 323, Poteet; CM ETO 800, Ungard;

CM ETO 7UO, Lane) (Charge I and Specification).

Similarly it was clearly proved by the evidence, including the statement by accused that at the timesand places alleged he committed the offenses alleged in Charge II and Specification (escape from confinement in violation of Article of War 69), in Charge III and specifications (larceny in violation of Article of War 9U) and in Charge IV and Specification (knowingly assisting a soldier to desert from the Canadian army by -wrongfully providing him with an American army uniform in violation of Article of War 96). The evidenceincluding accused's statement is also legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as approved by the reviewing’ authority of the offense alleged in Specification I of the Additional Charge (robbery in violation of Article of War 93)•

It has been held that where several articles have been stolen, the corpus delicti in each case having been established, and accused is found in possession of part of the stolen articles after the theft, such fact • may be considered as tending to show he was guilty of stealing all of the articles (CM 137982, Acosta; CM 192031, Allen). If the finding of part of the stolen articles in accused's possession furnishes the basis for such an inference, an admission by accused himself that he actually stole some of the articles would normally provide an even stronger inference that he took all of the articles alleged.’ Kodera testified that about 1 August at Dunmow he missed his wallet which contained a five-dollar American bill, a two-dollar money order, a canteen check and other personal property, and that when Knittel searched his own trousers he found that his wallet was missing. Knittel testified that about 1 August at Dunmow he missed a wallet, an American dollar bill, a "EX" card, about six shillings in change and some photographs (Specifications 2 and 3, Additional Charge). Both men were members of the 8l8th Engineer Battalion. In his statement accused admitted that on the night of 30 July he and Nolan entered a building occupied by the 8l3th Engineer Battalion and stole the wallets of two men, that one wallet was empty and the other contained three one-dollar bills and one five-dollar bill. He also took seven~*skillings from the trousers of one of the men. They threw away the papers and kept the wallets. It is the opinion of the Board of Review that the property concerned was satisfactorily identified by the evidence and that in view of the principle enunciated in the Acosta and Allen cases hereinbefore cited, the evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specifications 2 and 3 of the Additional Charge.

Reitano testified that about 1 August he missed his leather wallet and Ellis missed his wallet containing a passport and nine pounds. Both men were members of the 813th Engineer Battalion. In his statement accused admitted that on the evening of 31 July he and Nolan returned to the same camp at Great Dunmow, entered about six tents, stole some wallets and realized about 12 pounds from the thefts. . Although accused's statement as to the vd-lets and their contents is most general in character, it is the opinion of the Board of Review that the property was sufficiently identified, that the principle of the Acosta and Allen cases is similarly applicable and that the evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specifications I; and 7 of the Additional Charge.

- 9 -

UONFIDENTIAL
confidential

(3.86)

With reference^ to Specification 5 of the Additional Charge (larceny-in violation of Article of Yiar 93), the only evidence presented by the prosecution was the testimony of the owner Zogleman, a member of the 8l8th Engineer Battalion, that when he arose on the morning of 1 August 19U3 near Great Dunmow he found missing from his shirt pocket a silver Monroe wrist-watch. The statement made'by accused contained no reference-to this watch and is' limited to his admission that on 30 and 31 July he and Nolan committed a series of thefts of wallets containing money and . papers from members of the 3l3th Engineer Battalion at Bishops Stortford, Great Dunmow. There was no evidence -that accused or Nolan were ever in possession of the watch. The statement by accused that on the evening . of 30 and 31 July, they stole wallets and money from members of Zogleman's organization at the place alleged, that he was hot sure that Nolan had told him of all the articles which he, Nolan, had taken and that on the morning of 1 August Nolan was trying to sell articles to soldiers, clearly does not justify any inference that Zogleman's watch was among the articles which were stolen. Accordingly, the evidence is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 5 of the Additional Charge.

7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of sge and that he

enlisted on 17 April 19U2 at Seattle, ’Washington for the duration of the war plus six months.	'	'	■	;	<	’

8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the -person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial with reference to the findings of guilty which have been sustained herein. The 3oard of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charges I, II, III, IV and of the specifications thereunder, legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as approved by the reviewing authority of Specifications 1, 2,3, U and 7 of the ' Additional Charge and of the Additional Charge, legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification $ Of the Additional Charge and legally sufficient to support the sentence.

9« Pursuant to paragraph GO # 37, ETOUSA, 9 September 19U2 as amended by GO # 63, ETOUSA, U December 19U2 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more.- Confinement of accused in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion in time of war (Article, of War U2) and for robbery by Sec. 1+63 Federal Criminal Code (18

Judge Advocate.

vocate. udge Advocate.'

- 10 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

(187)

■s ft WftU 1QAQ

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. ° u w	TO:	Com

General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 837, U. S. Army.

TO: Commanding

1.	In the case of " Private CECIL MOSSER (19096562), Company A,

3U2nd Engineer General Service Regiment attention is invited to the . foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charges I,.

II, III, IV and of the specifications thereunder,. legally sufficient

to support the findings of guilty as approved by the reviewing authority of Specifications 1, 2, 3, U and 7 of the Additional Charge and of the Additional Charge, legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 5 of the Additional Charge and legally sufficient to. support the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50i you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office

they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement.-The file number of the record in this office is ETO 952. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 952).	....-•

Brigadier General, United States Arb^fji Assistant Judge Advocate Generalj

#(189)

CONFIDENTIAL

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW	...

ETO 960

UNITED	STATES	)

)

)

)

Private RUSSELL (NIvU) FAZIO	)

(13012666) and Private CHARLES B. ) POTEET, (6996601) both of Company ) "A", First Provisional Battalion, ) 10th Replacement Depot, and	)

Private WARREN G. NELSON, (20503176)) Company "A", Fourth Replacement ) Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot. j

)

):

ll DEC 1943

WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF • OPERATIONS.

Trial by GCLfl, convened at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, 25 October 1943. Sentences: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement for 10 years each for Privates Fazio and Nelson, in the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, and for 20 years for Private Poteet, in the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused were tried upon the following Charges and Specifications:

FAZIO

CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	69th	Article	of	War.

Specification:	In	that	Private Russell (NIvH) Fazio,

Company A,, First Provisional Battalion, Tenth Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, having been duly placed in confinement in Western Base Guardhouse, Tenth Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 25 August 1943, did at Western Base Guardhouse, Tenth Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943, escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.

-1-

CONFIDENTIAL
(190)

CONFIDENTIAL

ADDITIONAL CHANGE:	Violation of the 53th Article of War.

Specifications In that Private Russell (Ml) Fazio,

Company A., First Provisional Battalion, Tenth Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Tenth Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943 desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he surrendered himself at Rugby, Warwickshire, England, on or about 6 October 1943.

POTEET .

CHAR(22 Is Violation-of the 69th Article of War.

Specifications In that Private Charles B. Poteet, Company "A", First Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, having been duly placed in confinement in Western Base Guardhouse, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 9 September 1943, did, at Western Base Guardhouse, Whittington Barracks,• Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 1 October. 1943, escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.

CHARGE III Violation of the 94th Article of War.

Specifications In that Private Charles B. Poteet, Company "A", First Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one wool olive drab blouse and one pair of wool olive drab pants of the value of less than twenty dollars ($20.00), property, of the United States furnished and intended for the military service thereof.

CHARGE Ills Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification Is In that Private Charles B.' Poteet, Company "A", First Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Coventry, Warwickshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away a plain wrist watch of Swiss make, of a value of less than twenty dollars, ($20.00), the property pf Mrs. G.A. Saunders, Coventry, Warwickshire,

Specification 2s In that Private Charles B. Poteet, Company "A" First Provisional’Battalion 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away nine pounds (L9), lawful money of

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL
(191)

CONFIDENTIAL

i

the United Kingdom of the exchange Value of thirty-six: dollars, thirty one cents ($36.31), the property of Corporal Duane B. Hamlin, Headquarters Detachment Company, 4.0th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Y/hittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England.

ADDITIONAL CHARGE:	Violation of the 58th Article of Yfar.

Specification:	In that Private Charles B. Poteet, Company A,

1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot,

■ Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did at 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 1 October 194-3 desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Weston Haddon, Northamptonshire, England, on or about . 6 October 194-3. -

NELSON

CHARGE I: Violation of the 69th Article of War.

Specification: In that Private Warren G. Nelson, Company A., Fourth Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, having been duly placed in confinement in Western Base Guardhouse, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about 9 September 1943, did, at Western Base Guardhouse, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire,* England, on or about 1 October 1943, escape from said confinement before he was set at liberty by proper authority.

CHARGE II:	Violation	of	the 93rd Article of War.

Specification:	In that Private Yirarren G. Nelson, Company A.,

Fourth Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield,' Staffordshire, England, did, at Coventry, Yfarwickshire, England, on or about 4 October 1943, feloniously take, steal, and carry away five pounds (£5), lawful money of the United Kingdom of the exchange value of twenty dollars and fourteen cents ($20.14) and one plain gold wedding ring and one ring with five small stones, all of the above property and currency being of the value of less than fifty dollars ($50.00), and more than the value of $20.00, the property of -Mrs. Doris Elizabeth Deeming, 131 Honiton Road, Y/ykin, Coventry, Warwickshire, England.

-	-3-

CONHDEHTIM-
COUFiDtNTlM

(192)

ADDITIONAL CHARCE:	Violatloa of the 58th Article of War.

Specification:	In	that Private Warren G. Nelson, Company A.,

fourth Replacement Battalion, Tenth Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, did at Tenth Replacement Depot, Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, oh or about 1 October 1943' desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Nuneaton, Warwickshire, England,'on or about 7 October 1943.

Each accused pleaded guilty to all charges and specifications with ' the exception of the charges and specifications alleging desertion in violation of Article of War 58, to which each pleaded not guilty. Each was found guilty of all charges and specifications with which he was charged. Evidence of four previous convictions was introduced against accused Fazio, two for "larceny, one for escape from confinement and one for failure to obey a lawful command of his company commander. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced against either Nelson or Poteet. Each was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, Fazio and Nelson for 10 years each and Poteet for 20 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentences, designated the Federal Reformatdry, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the places of confinement for Fazic and Nelson, and the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, as the place of confinement for Poteet and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of Y/ar 50^.

3.	Other than the written statements of each of the accused, no evidence was introduced by the prosecution except in support of the charges and specifications alleging desertion and escape from confinement. The evidence- introduced summarizes as follows:

Captain Marshall F. Hollis, Infantry, on 30 September 1943, was Assistant Provost Marshal in charge of the Western Base Guardhouse at the 10th Replacement Depot, and had received, among others, the three accused as prisoners:	Poteet	for a life term, Fazio for a 10 year term

and Nelson for a 5 year term (R18). About 5:30 on the morning of 1 October 1943, he went to No. 3.Guardhouse, 10th Replacement Depot and found that accused Nelson, Poteet and Fazio had escaped from their cells. They had gone out through the window over the lavatory after prying open their cell doors, and though immediate search was made of the buildings and surrounding territory they were not found. He had not authorized their release and they escaped before being set at liberty by proper authority (R19)•

Corporal Harry S. Carney, 10th-Replacement Depot, worked in the office of the Provost Marshal, and was in charge- of the Guard Book of the Western Base Guardhouse. He produced and identified the book and

-4"

SOiifiiktiltAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(193)

the entry therein of 1 October 1943 recitings "Escaped: Fazio, No.29, Poteet, No. 97, Nelson, No.122, escaped from the guardhouse around 0400 hours, 1st October" (R20-21; Pros. Ex."C"). (The records fail to disclose the admission of any exhibits marked Pros. Ex. A and B.)

Private Dillon (NMI) Maynor was on duty at Western Base Guardhouse No.3 on the morning of 1 October 1943. He knew accused had been prisoners in the guardhouse and that they escaped on that morning. He personally searohed for them and they were not in their cells (R22).

Corporal Joseph (NI.Il) Lackup, Company "B", 4th Replacement Battalion was acquainted with the accused. About 4.30 A.M. of 1 October 1943 he came down to No.3 Guardhouse "to collect a man" he made a personal search of the cells and accused were not present.(R23).

Harry Wheeler, Police Inspector, Northamptonshire Constabulary, identified accused Poteet. He saw a soldier dressed in American Army uniform and wearing sergeant's stripes on the night of 6 October 1943 at the Headquarters of a British Artillery unit at West Haddon Hall, , Northamptonshire. He "challenged him with being one of the three escaped American prisoners, Poteet. He produced to me a pink leave pass bearing the name of Charles Allen. In answer to my further questions he became confused, and I took him into custody on suspicion of being Poteet". On further questioning at Police headquarters, the prisoner admitted his identity as Poteet and was handed over to the American authorities (R22).

Mrs. Nellie Weston, George Hotel, Kilsby, near Rugby, identified Poteet and Fazio who registered respectively as Charles Allen and Ben .. , Rainwater at her hotel sometime between 30 September and 6 October 1943. Both later admitted their'true identity to Mrs. Weston and Fazio told her he "would like to give himself;up" and Poteet said he was "willing to come back after December 1st". Poteet said the reason he wanted to stay out till then was a personal matter (R26-27).

Police Sergeant John A. Thomas, Warwickshire Constabulary, in „ response to a telephone message on 7 October (1943) "made a search and found the prisoner Warren (Nelson) at a house in Heath End Road, Nuneaton.

I	told him I suspected him of being a person wanted by -the. U.S. Authorities, and searched him., I found in his possession two dog tags by the name of John R. Smith. I told him he appeared'identical with a man we wanted, arrested him1 and took him to Nuneaton Police Station" (R28). He was	'

dressed in United States Army.uniform with sergeant's stripes (R29).

-5t

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

John Edward Crolcer, Detective Sergeant, Warwickshire Constabulary, on 6 October 1943, as result of a message received from Mrs. Weston at the George Hotel, Kilsby, "went there and saw the prisoner Fazio standing in the bar. • I recognized him as Fazio and told him I was a police officer and should take him into custody.

He said 'I’m the guy’11. He was dressed in American uniform'and was handed over to .the American authorities. He was apprehended about 25 miles from "this station" (the place of escape) (R31).

Second Lieutenant Thomas B. Weatherby, Infantry, who investigated the charges identified various statements which were voluntarily made by the accused after due warning given that they did not have to make any statement and that if they-did it might be used for or against them in a trial by court-martial ,(R32). These statements were offered as confessions "only ‘for the 58th Article of War". The objection by the defense to "three sheets" was sustained and the balance consisting of one statement each of Poteet and Fazio (3 sheets) and three separate . statements of. Nelson were admitted as Pros.'Ex. "D" to "J" .inclusive (R33).

Poteet in his sworn' statement (Pros. Ex "D") stated that he wanted to stay out until his child was- born, that while away he never changed into civilian clothes, and denied that any accused had any weapons while absent. He also stated that "The property which I have been questioned about was taken from me at Northampton where I was taken from West Haddon".

Nelson, in his signed statements, Pros. Ex. "E", "F" and "G", agreed "with the statement of Fazio in so far as it pertains to what we did up to the time I left them" and in so far as it pertained to him Nelson attached and adopted Fazio's statement as his own with certain exceptions. He got some clothes from a barracks not far from Guardhouse No. 3«

"On Monday morning when I parted from the boys I ..went to a girls . house across the street from the Webster's and about three houses down where this girl was staying. She was.of Italian descent. The reason I did not rejoin Fazio and Poteet was that I saw some police outside. I stayed with this girl all > day Monday and Monday night and Tuesday night until about 2200 hours when I left, started back for camp since I had . seen our pictures in the paper and knew that it was useless to try to stay out any longer. I went first to Bedworth where I stayed in the train station that night, and I stayed around Bedworth the next day and caught the train for Nuneaton this morning, 7 October 194-3, at 0630 hours.-.1 got off the train .. at Nuneaton and was arrested there about 30 minutes later by

j	:

-6-

GONFiuENTlAL
Oii t ! Uul«i * ^•

(195)

the civilian police. I did not intend permanently deserting the Army of tne United States but merely wanted to get out and get some whiskey and cigarettes. I have been drinking since I was 15 and can not do without it." (Pros. Ex."F").

He admitted taking two rings, one a wedding band, the other a small wing with five stones in it, from a little box on the dresser of a lady (Mrs.Leeming) living "across the street from Mrs. Webster", and at the same time taking from her a five pound note (Pros.Ex.E).

Fazio in his statement detailed the particulars of the escape of the three accused and of their activities thereafter as long as they were together (Pros.Exs.H-l). He denied any outside assistance of-any sort in the escape (Pros. Ex. "J").

Private Harry -M. Long, Disciplinary Training Centre No. 1 was confined in the Western Base Guardhouse with the accused prior to 1 October 194-3 (R35). About two or three days before they escaped, the accused told him that they would like to get out of the guardhouse and go to a battle front with American troops because their sentences might then be suspended.

A. Three members of the court, Col. Herr, Lt.-Col. Haney and Ca-t;. Mulberg, who were members of a co-irt which had previously tried Fazio and Nelson on other and different charges than the present ones were each challenged for cause by the defense, and each was sworn and questioned. Each denied any prejudice toward accused and stated that he could, as a member of the present court, give accused a fair and impartial trial. One of the three challenged members, the president of the court. Colonel Herr, testified that he had an unfavourable impression of both accused after the last trial which impression was still maintained. The court closed and considered the challenges in the absence of the three members and refused to sustain them. Thereafter the defense announced that there were no peremptory challenges and that there was no objection to any member of the court. (R3-7).	.

The failure of the defense to exercise its peremptory challenges after denial of its challenges for cause prevents any consideration upon appellate review of the court’s action in denying the challenges for cause. (CM ETO 804, Ogletree et al). .

5.	Evidence of four previous.convictions of accused Fazio was received by the court prior to-their announcing their findings. However, the court closed just prior to receiving such evidence and the record does not clearly indicate the order of procedure. Such evidence may be

-7-
CONFIDENTIAL

(196)

received only after the findings have been made, and then only for the purpose of determining the punishment. As Fazio was given the same sentence as Nelson he apparently ?/as not prejudiced by any irregular action of the court.

6.	Several errors and irregularities occurring during the trial have been noted by the Assistant Staff Judge Advocate in his review. As these pertained mostly to form and procedure and did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of the a ccused under the provisions of Article of War37, further comment is unnecessary.

7.	Each of accused pleaded guilty to all charges and specifications against them with.the exception of the charge of desertion under Article of War 58 and its specification. By inference, foteet in his statement refers to the articles he is charged with talcing, when he mentions "the property which I have been questioned about".

Nelson in his statement admits his guilt of the larceny to which he pleaded guilty. Fazio was not charged with larceny. Each was fully advised of the effect of their plea of guilty but declined to change it.

In connection with the charges of larceny there was no evidence except accused's statements. The record is legally sufficient to sustain the charges of larceny against Poteet (Charge II and its Specification;

Charge III and its Specifications) and against Nelson (Charge II and its Specification).

8.	The undisputed evidence fully warrants the findings of guilty as to each accused of escape from confinement. It is also legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty as to each accused cf the charge cf desertion. Each escaped from confinement and there was evidence that each desired to leave the country. Each used a false name while absent. The absence of each accused was terminated by apprehension although it was alleged that Fazio surrendered (CM ETO 952, i'osser;

CM ETO 913, Piemo: CM ETO 823, Foteet: CM ETO 800, TJngard; CM ETO 71,0, Lane). The -trial court passes on disputed facts and is the sole judge thereof. Its findings will not be disturbed when supported by competent substantial evidence. (CM ETO 132, Nelly and Hyde; CM ETO 4.22, Green;

CM ETO 492, Lewis).

9. The present offenses were committed on 1 October and 4 October 1943, charges were preferred 7 October and 12 October, trial was had

on 25 October and action taken 8 November, 1943.

On 27 September 1943 Nelson ms sentenced in a former trial on other charges to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. The sentence was approved by the reviewing authority 4 October 1943 and published in a general court-martial order dated 21 October 1943 (CM ETO 839, Nelson).

-8-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(197)

On 1 September 194-3 Poteet was sentenced in a former trial on other charges to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for the term of his natural life. The sentence was approved by the reviewing authority 26 September 194-3 and published in a general court-martial order dated 15 October 194-3 (CM ETO 823,

Poteet).

On 27 September 1943 Fazio was sentenced in a former trial on other charges to dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement .at hard labor for ten years. The' sentence was approved by the"reviewing authority 13 October 1943 and published on the same day.

As this published order was void because the Board of Review had not acted upon the .record of trial, (AW 50§), the sentence was later published in a "corrected" general court-martiql order dated 29 October 1943 (CM ETO 875, Fazio).

s None of the former sentences to dishonorable discharge were ordered suspended by the reviewing authority. The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio was designated as the places of confinement for Fazio and Nelson, and the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania for Poteet.

The former sentences of Nelson and Poteet were approved -by the reviewing authority and the general court-martial orders thereon published prior to 25 October 1943, the date of the present trial. The former sentence of Fazio was approved by the reviewing authority prior to the date of the present trial but the only valid general court-martial order thereon was published four days after the date of this trial. The offenses by - the three accusecTwhich were the subject of the present trial were all committed prior to the dates on which they were dishonorably discharged.

They were therefore soldiers when the offense^ were committed.

It is now well settled that where a general prisoner is tried for an offense committed while a soldier and prior to his dishonorable discharge, such discharge did not terminate his amenability to trial . while in confinement under his sentence for offenses committed prior to discharge. (Dig. Ons. JAG. 1912-1930. sec.1326. n.657: 'CM156977.-Howell:	CM	173082, Curran:	CM	175471,	Evanco)

« * * * where a dishonorably discharged general prisoner was . tried for an offense committed while a soldier and prior to his dishonorable discharge, it was held that such discharge did not terminate his amenability to trial for the offense"

(MCM; 1928, par.10, p.9).	'

In a case decided prior to the Howell case just cited, the evidence showed- that accused was- sentenced to dishonQrable discharge, advised of the sentence and actually discharged prior to 30 November 1921, the date on which the reviewing authority approved a second sentence imposed upon trial for an offense prior to his discharge. It was held that except for violation of Article of War 94, courts-martial did not have jurisdiction

-9-

G0NF10LNTIAL
to try general prisoners for offenses committed prior to their discharge as soldiers, and that as accused had been discharged'subsequent to;the offenses charged and prior to the completion of his trial, such trial was void (CM 149349, Qgilvie et alt CM. 142257, Kolocklv: CM 126359, Sparks; CM 144.965. Jones; CM 152203, Acree). However, the principle enunciated in the Ogilvie case and similar cases immediately above cited, has been overruled by the Howell, Curran and Evanco decisions.

The principles of the last.mentioned.cases apply to the case under consideration. The offenses alleged in the present cases were committed by Poteet and Nelson and charges were preferred, prior:to the promulgation of their former sentences to dishonorable discharge, . by general court-martial orders dated 15 and 21 October respectively, although the date of the present trial is.subsequent to the date of such publication. . Fazio ‘however committed the offehses herein alleged, charges were preferred against him-, and he was actually' tried prior to the, publication of his former sentence to dishonorable discharge by; general court-martial order dated 29 October 1943. All three aocused were in confinement when charges for the commission'of the present offenses were preferred. According to the principles enunciated in the Howell and associate cases cited above, the three accused were amenable to trial by courts-martial for the commission of the offenses charged herein. To hold otherwise would result in allowing them;to escape punishment entirely with respect to these offenses.

Although the sentences herein imposed are, therefore1, entirely legal, those portions thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge and total forfeitures are now inoperative as the prior sentences to dis- : honorable, discharge and total forfeitures have been promulgated, and

have,effected the discharges and forfeitures.	*	■

> * • » % ••

10.	The charge sheets show that accused Fazio, is 13 years and 3 months old, and enlisted at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, 7 January 1941 with no prior service; that accused Nelson is 24 years'4 months old; and enlisted at Akron, ..Ohio, 15 July 1940 with no prior service; and that accused Poteet is 22 years old and enlisted at Richmond, Virginia,

7 November, .1939, with no .prior service. The service period of each accused was governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941.

11.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and of the offenses. ^No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused,were committed during Idle trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences as to each accused.

: -10-

G0NF1DENTIAL
12.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, General Orders No. 37, ETOUSA,

9 September 1942, as amended by General Orders No. 63, ETOUSA,

4	December 1942, a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a' sentence of three years or more. It is provided in War Department Circular 291, 10 November 1943, section V 3a and b that with respect to military prisoners sentenced to confinement in a Federal institution, prisoners under 31 years of age and with sentences of not more than 10 years will be confined in a Federal correctional institution or reformatory.

All other prisoners will be confined in a penitentiary. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion in time of war (Article of War 42). The designation of the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania as the place for confinement of accused Poteet, and of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place for confinement of accused Fazio and Nelson, is correct. The place designated for each is the same designated as the place of confinement for the prior sentences.

Judge Advocate



dge Advocate

-n-

C0NF1DENT1AL
(200)

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

TO, Branch Office TJAG with ETOUSA, ll DEC 1943TO:. Commanding Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515, U. S.Army.

1.	In the cases of Private Russell (OT.1I) Fazio (13012666), Private Charles B. Poteet, (6996601), both of Company "A", 1st Provisional Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, and Private Warren G. Nelson, (20503176), Company "A", Ath Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of / trial is legally sufficient to support.the findings and sentences, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50g-, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentences.

2,	When copies of the published'order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 960. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of .the record: (ETO 960).

V ' E. C. McNEIL/

Brigadier General, United States Ar|sg| h Assistant Judge Advocate General.!
#(201)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the

European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 969

UNITED STATES. j

v.	)

)

Private LEE.A. DAVIS (18023362),	)	.

Company "C", 248th Quartermaster ) Battalion (Service).	|

)

• >• 3; DEC 1943

> ■ '

1

SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVIOES OF STJPPIX, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Tottenham House, Marlborough, Wiltshire, England, 6-7-26 October 1943. Sentence *‘ To he hanged by the neck until dead.'

• "	"' T	'	T	1

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1. The record of trial in the oase of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, '.to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.	,	.	•	•

J 2. Accused was tried upon the following Charge and specifications*

CHARGE* Violation of the 92nd Article of War.

Specification 1* In that Private Lee A. Davis,

Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion (Service) did, at or about London Hill,

Marlborough, Wilts, England, on or about,

28 September 1943, with malice aforethought, willfully, deliberately, feloniously, unlawfully, and with premeditation,.kill one,

Cynthia June Lay, a human being, by shooting her with a rifle.

Specification 2* In that Private Lee A. Davis,

Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion .

(Service) did, at or about London Hill,

Marlborough, Wilts, England, on or about 28 September 1943, forcibly and feloiiiously, against her will, have carnal knowledge of Miss Muriel Joyce Rosalie Fawden, a female - person.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

• i

He pleaded not guilty to and was.found guilty of the Charge and of the specifications thereunder all members of the court concurring. Evidence of three previous convictions was introduced as follows: (a) absence without leave and disrespect to an officer in violation,of Articles of War 61 and 96; (b) absence without leave for two days in violation of Article of War 61; and (c) failure to obey the order, of a noncommissioned officer in violation of Article of War 65. He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead all members of the court concurring. The reviewing authority, the Commanding Officer,' Southern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, approved the sentence and forwarded the record, of trial for action under Article of War AS. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing the execution thereof, pursuant to Article . of War 50|-. . ' .	.

3.	The evidence for the prosecution shows that during the early afternoon of 28 September 1943 Miss Muriel Joyce Rosalie Fawden, Station House, Castle Cary, Somerset, an employee of Savernake Hospital, went to the motion pictures in Marlborough. Upon leaving the theater about 7:45 p.m. she met a friend, Miss June Lay, and both girls started walking toward Savernake Hospital (R63,184). Miss Fawden testified in; pertinent part as follows:

"We got half-way up the hill to the hospital,

X think about quarter past eight, and a colored American soldier came up from behind and spoke to us. He said 'How far are you going?' We both answered 'We are going to ■ the hospital.' He said 'How far is that?' and I said 'Just up there,' and with that he dropped behind us again.

A few minutes afterwards 1 heard a voice behind us say 'Stand still, or I'll shoot' or_ words to that effect - I can't really remem-, ber. the exact words. We both turned rdund, hardly believing our ears, and we saw a colored American soldier standing levelling a rifle at us.

He told us to get over the other side of the road, into the bushes. We sort of went towards that side of the road, and tried to stall him. We said we could not get into the bushes because there was barbed wire there, which was a lie - we were trying to stall him. We said it was much better further down *the road, so we walked backwards, facing him, down the road, and he still levelled the rifle at us.

Then June said to me 'Run, Muriel;' we both started to run, and then I heard shots.

- 2 -

CONFIDENTS
CONFIDENTIAL

I was in front - I was leading June behind - and 3J looked round and June was still running, and I heard more.shots, and I turned round and June 'threw up her arms and screamed, and rolled over in " the road.

Well, I then turned my back and started running hard, and I could hear ■ more shots, -and had the impression of bullets whistling past me, so I stopped dead in my tracks, because. I thought the next one would go in my back, I didn’t turn round, I just stayed there as I was, with my back towards fyim. Then after a few seconds he caught me up and caught hold of my arm and pulled me through the barbed wire - at least, he ordered me to get through the barbed wire, and we crouched there for a few minutes listening,

• I had a whi,te mackintosh on, and he stood over mg with the gun and said ’Take your white coat off. When we run it will show up’. I could not takeny mackintosh off without taking my gloves off, which I did, aijd for some Reason or pther I sort of handed thqm to him - ,1 mean I don’t know why I did it, but I did, and he took them from me, and then I took my mac off and just left it where we were crouching. Then we went further up into the Forest, up on the hill into the grass, and stayed there a few minutes listening, and I heard a lorry come down the hill and stop, and I knew June had been found, and I knew that people would start searching for me.

Then he stood over me-with the gun,

.and he sa^-d ’Either you do what I want you to do or you die, I am going to count ten,’ So he started to count ten. I did,1 not want to die, so I had no option but to give in to him.

After that" I asked him if he would let me go- and he said, he would if I’d show him the way to the railway line, so I took him over in the direction I thought the railway line lay. Of course-it was dark,’ and when we got there the bushes were thick and I found we- couldn't get through, so we turned and started to go back more in the direction that we had
CONFIDENTIAL

(204)

■ I

come, and I could see torches and I knew that they were searching for me. So then he pulled me down behind a.bush and said •If you dare move or make a sound I will shoot you, so I didn't, and after ^ while the torches went away, and then we went further on and through a wicket gate, and over the old gate just to the left there werp some haystacks, and we went-in there, and I said 'won't you let me go now' and he said 'No, I am not going to let you go until morning' so: I sort of felt in my mind that he knew that I was the only one that had witnessed anything. I sort of felt.that he was contemplating whether he , was going to shoot me or not> so I knew, it was up to me to do all I could to save my life. .

So we talked for a. little while and' I saw torches-going across the top of the field, and he said 'What are those lights?' and I said 'Why, I don't think it ip any- ■ thing?.- He said 'If anybody comes near I've got thirty rounds of ammunition.. I, shall phoot whoevever comes near.' And the torches went away again. An then he forced me again.	,

Q.	Miss Fawden, Torced you' You mean he had carnal knowledge of you?-'A. Yes. Then I just started talking, I never talked so hard in all my life. I told him that I was a nurse at- the hospital, which - was untrue, and I thought I should get into a row for-being out all night, and if he would let me go back I'd get into bed -I was most unscrupulous - I mean, I told lies all the time. My maiir object was to get away with my- life - and I can't remember half that I did talk about. I know that I blasphemed. I asked him if he was a Christian. I sai,d I would forgive him, but it was only to save my life. I could see that these words were having an effect on him, so I played on them and after a while he said he would let me go. I said 'Won't you be afraid to walk back to thes hospital by yourself?' Well, I wasn't going to say no or yes. I -said 'Oh, I don't think so' or something like that, so he said I will

- 4 -

CONFIDENTIAL
I

CONFIDENTIAL

come a little way with you.

So he came as far as the wicket gate with me. By this time he had slung the rifle over his right shoulder and wasn’t holding it any more. So I sort of said ’Good-bye’ to him - I don’t know how - I can't remember. . I turned away and I fully expected to have a shot in my back# but it didn't come. So I ran across the forest in the direction of the hospital, and.when I got to the top I got lost in the trees.

I remember getting through some barbed wire and I found myself going down the same slope that we had come up earlier in the evening, and then I saw lights in front of me and I think ,1 shouted ’Help’ or something like that' and the policy found me, it was a policeman, and other police took me bqck to the hospital.(R184--186).

(205)

Kiss Fqwden further testified that the incident occurred "quite near the hospital off the London Hil}", Marlborough, Wiltshire County, England. Her assailant was the same person who shot Miss lay. . He wore a khaki overcoat, put it on the grass and told her to lie on it. She identified as hers a pair of gloves which she had given him that .evening, and also a "white mac", (R186; Pros.Exs.U,20J.

Mrs. Lucy L. Fawden, Station House, Castle Cary, Somerset, Kiss Fawden's mother, identified the gloves as belonging to her.daughter by the initials "F.A" which were the marks used by a cleaner for all Mrs. Fawden's linen. She produced at the trial a table napkin marked in the same manner and also identified her daughter’s mackintosh which was admitted in evidence .($55 J Pros.Exs.il,20),	.	>

About 12:10 a.m. 29 September 194-3, Police Constable Albert E. Boyer, stationed at Marlborough, heard the screams of a woman coming from the direction of Savernake Forest. He searched the forest and found Miss Fawden who was hysterical and distressed.. She told Boyer that she had been raped twice by a colored soldier who had "fired two shots at June and marked me off to some haystacks in the forest with a rifle pointing in my ribs". She also told him that "**** it will be terrible if I have a black baby". Mr. Albert C» Smith, 2 Lees Road, Marlborough, heard her say "My God, my god, where am I *** I have been raped". . Boyer took her to the Savernake Hospital (R103-104-,106,109-111).	When she arrived at

the hospital .about 12: 30 a.m. MiS3 Fawden, who was stiU hysterical, nervous and in great mental distress, was immediately undressed. Removed from her body were a pair of camiknickers, an underveat, a suspender belt and a pair of stockings (R95-9&,99-101; Pros.Exs.13-16). She was immediately physically examined by Dr. Timothy K. Maurice of Kingsbury Hill House, Marlborough who found that she was trembling and obviously suffer-

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(206)

ing from a grave emotional disturbance. : Her. hair was dishevelled, there was considerable dried blood and bruising about her genitals and the bleeding appeared to emanate from, her* hymen which had been recently torn and lacerated;..,, in the opinion of Dr. Maurice she had been subject to violence and'heiv^juries had been caused .by_the introduction of a male , organ; penetration had' occurred (R15-16).' He testified that the injuries could have beep caused by an instrument.or.thing other than a male organ (R18). After the examination she-was put to bed. On the first day of the trial (6 October 19A3) MiS3 Fawden, who was about 22 years of age wa3 in the hospital, her mental condition was still rather critical and large doses of hypnotics were being admistered.. She was excitable and more than ordinarily emotional (R17). . On 30 September 1943, her blood type was determined to be ”0” by Dr. Charles J. Baschall, The Gables, Burbage, Wiltshire (R179). .	-

N About 8:10 p.m., 28 September 19A3,. George E. Browning^ 2 South View, Marlborough, a porter at Savernake Hospital, was on a railway bridge at London Hill and heard two Shots in quick succession, a scream and a scuffle^ . He ran."towards where the shots were fired," saw a Lorry' stop and men' jump out. ' He saw June Lay, whom he recognized, lying on .the ■ ground.1 She, was aliye, was coughing and bipod was running from.her face 4R28-29).	'	'	^	7'	./

Francis Beasley; 35 Deansway,. Chippenham,"Just after eight , o'clock" on the evening of 28 September was driving a lorry toward . Chippenham when jae noticed the body of a woman lying on Marlborough Hill. He left a friend at the scene and drove to Marlborough where he informed the police (R26).	;	'.	"	\	.

^	.	About	8»A5	p.m.	28 September, Dr. Maurice wept to the place where

Miss Lay was found which Was about 200 yards above a railroad bridge on the main London road leading out of Marlborough. He found Miss Lay, whom he knew, lying on the main road.1 Examination showed that she had not ,. ^een dead for more than a half hour (R12-13).' 1

A post-mortem on the body of, Miss Lay was performed on 29 September 19A3 'by Dr. Baschall, assisted by Dr. Maurice who took notes at the former’s dictation. Dr.' Baschall, reading from his notes, testified that

the results of the post-mortem were in part as follows:

• . . , / .. • ,

‘ '

"The body iras of a stout young woman.*Rigor

Mortis is present. . There are several external

woundb._ ’•	_	_

(l) A small1 circular,, clean-cut perforated

wound about "i" in diameter situated about 3"

above the. left external auditory meatus*1 '

Secondly, an irregular wound situated 2"

' anterior to the first wound.. This irregular

would is approximately 3/8" from above down- ,

wards and across.	*

- 6 «•

CONFIDENTIAL'
CONFIDENTIAL

(207)

3.	An irregular-circular wound just above- -the canthus of the right eye. This one is 3/4" in diameter. There is some dark mottling on the skin round this wound, and two small pieces of the skin has been removed for the purpose of microscopic examination.

4.	A perforating wound 3/4” in diameter•about 4" distal to and slightly anterior to the right acromio-clavicular joint.

5.	A perforating wound in diameter 1" to the left of the mid-line at the back.and at the level of the spine of the eighth dorsal, vertebrae. • ■

6.	-JHHHHHHHHHf-.

7.	***mx **■»*». in the right pleural. cavity a wound was found I2" posterior to the body of the seventh dorsal vertebrae. This wound was large enough to admit the tip of the index finger and wa3 found to be in communic-• ation with the wound mentioned in ’5* - that is, the perforating wound near the mid-line of the back.. Also in the right pleural cavity was another wound, in the right mid-axillary line, which had fractured the fifth rib. Examination of the right lung showed

a wound in the posterior part of the lower lobe, and another slightly.anterior, above and lateral to the former. These two wounds communicated with each other through a narrow track passing through the lung tissue. Further , explorations showed that the wound fracturing the fifth rib passed through the axilla and was in communication with the one mentioned in *4' - that is, the wound in the region of . the right acromio-clavicular joint. The left lung did not show any abnormality.

There is a fracture of the right humerus, 1" below the surgical neck. The site of the fracture is in a straight line joining the wound in the back, that is number *5’, the wounds in the right pleural cavity and the wound in the right shoulder (number '4')•

The head:	The	hair	was moist with blood.

The wound over the right external auditory meatus had perforated the skull and was in communication with the wound on the•inner side of the right orbit. The bones of the skull between these two points were in fragments, the largest fragment being approximately

- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

2" square. The posterior border of this fragment, was formed by the left coronal suture.

This suture' had separated for some. distance above the fracture, approximately as far as to 2” to the right of the mid-line of the skull. The anterior part of the left frontal lobe of the brain was lacerated. The wound 2" anterior to the one over the left ear was apparently caused by one of the fragments of bone." (fi.9-10)..

The conclusion reached by the two doctors was that Miss Lay's death had been sudden and violent, and was caused by two bullet wounds, one pene-.trating the brain and ^he other penetrating the lung (Rll,14).

^ A certified copy of an entry of death of Miss Cynthia June Lay with the exception of that part thereof entitled "Cause of Death" was ^admitted in evidence with the consent of the defense (R19j. Pros.Ex.l).

About 8:25 p.m. 28 September, Police Sergeant William J. Willis, stationed at Marlborough, arrived at the scene, found the body of'a woman lying in the road and immediately drew chalk marks around the body, which was not moved until-photographs were later taken. Upon inquiry he found that the deceased was Miss June Lay. She was lying on London Hill, a half to three-quarters of a mile from Marlborough and about 500 yards from Savernake Hospital (R22-24). 'Photographs were taken about 12:30 a.m. (29 September) by Detective Sergeant Reginald T.M., Butler, Photographic Branch, British Constabulary, Devizes. One picture was a view of the body facing towards Marlborough, another of ‘tlie body facing towards Savernake Forest. The following day Butler took two photographs of the road where Miss Lay was found, one being a general view of the road towards Marlborough and the other towards Savernake Forest. The four photographs which-were identified by Sergeant Willis as correct reproductions of the scenes intended to be portrayed were respectively admitted in evidence (R20,23-24; Exs. A,B,C,D). On 1 October, Butler took a photograph of a stake "showing where various articles of clothing were found" (R20) (Later admitted in evidence as Ex.E).

About 11:10 p.m* 28 September, Mr. Albert G. Smith, who was one of a group of men searching the area, found a lady's brown woolen scarf on the ground near a wire fense on the side of the road.	About eight

yards away on the other-side of the fence," Constable Boyer found an American soldier's "forage cap" lying on the ground about_60 yards from where the body of Miss Lay was found (R103-105,109).	Boyer identified

Pros.Ex,19 as the cap which he had found, and marked the spot by placing an "X" on a photograph which was-then admitted in evidence as Ex.E (R105-106). Smith marked with a "Y".on Ex.E the place where he found the scarf (Rill). - About 10:15 p.m. 28 September, Sergeant W.J. Gale of the

- 8 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(209)

Wiltshire Special Constabulary found a lady's mackintosh on the ground about ten yards inside the wire fence. He identified Pros.Ex.20 as the c'oat which he found' and designated the spot on Ex.E by placing a "Z"	'

thfereon (R112). At 7sl5 a.m*. 29 September, Detective Sergeant Arthur ‘

R.	Hill, stationed at Marlborough found an empty .30 carbine rifle-cartridge about 14- feet from the place where the body of Miss Lay had been discovered. The cartridge was two feet from the curb and on the curb directly opposite the case were splashes of blood. Hill identified Pros.Ex.4 as the cartridge-shell which he had found (R60,115-116,128).

During the evening of 28" September Private James Henderson,

354th Engineer Regiment went to bed in barracks 28 at Iron Gates Camp at 8 p.m.' Sometime during the night he heard a noise in the hut and someone turned on the lights. -A pair of "0.D" trousers were "lying there". He identified a pair of trousers as the ones which were found. On the same evening Sergeant Willie Wilson, Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment was charge of quarters and about 11:30 p.m. entered barrack 28 at Iron Gates -Camp to make a bed check. Henderson gave him the pair of "O.D" trousers which had been discovered. Wilson identified Pros.Ex,6'as the trousers which had been delivered to him by the bloodstains thereon. They were removed by Second Lieutenant A.D. Mothershed,' Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment, who also by the bloodstains identified the trousers as being similar in appearance to the pair which he had taken (R31-33>4S-52).

About 6:15 a.m. 29 September, at Iron Gates Camp a wrinkled *'

"G.P 'overcoat was seen hanging up inside the door of barrack 28 by Private First Class James W. Patterson, Company D, 354th Engine er Regiment. The coat was not there when he went to bed on the night of 28 September, nor did it belong td any of the occupants of barrack 28. The overcoat, and a shirt were taken from the barrack by First Sergeant Bowens, Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment and turned over to Lieutenant Llothershed. Patterson identified Pros.Ex.5 as the overcoat in question, and Bowens and Lieutenant Mothershed both identified Pros.Ex.5 and Pros.Ex.7 a3 similar in appearance to the overcoat and shirt which they had received. There was a bloodstain on the shirt (R168-178).

I

On the morning of 29 September • First Lieutenant Clarence L» Villemez, Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment was the leader of a group of men searching the area around. Barrack 28. About 25 yards from the barrack they discovered a carbine rifle "sticking straight'up, barrel down, in the mud". A clip containing live ammunition was found about 10 or 15 yards away between the rifle and the barracks. Barrack 28 was occupied by Company D, 354th Engineer Regiment which company was not armed with carbines. Lieutenant Villemez turned over the carbine and clip to Lieutenant Mothershed who gave it to Detective Sergeant Hill.

Hill identified Pros.Ex.2 as the carbine-rifle in question. It bore the number 1594722 (R52-53,130-138).

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

It was recorded on-accused's identification tag and service record that his name tras’Lee A. Davis, his serial number 18023362 (Underscoring supplied) and his blood type "0". His identification tags were admitted in evidence* (R8,65r66,70; Pros.Ex.22). Clothing of the members of his company was marked^the first letter of the soldier's surname followed by the last four digits of Ms serial number. • The letter and figure D3362 would’ be used by accused to mark Ms clotMng (R66). The wrinkled overcoat and shirt found in Barrack 28 (Pros.Exs.5,7) were each marked B3362 (R66,173,175-177).	The soldier's cap (Pros.Ex.19) found

near the Wire fence was marked "W8470" (R56,129), which consisted of the first iMtial of the last name and the last four digits of the serial number of a Private J.C. Vfheeler, a member of accused's company (R68,80) who testified that the cap was his, that he had*loaned it to accused 27 September. 194-3 and that accused did not return it (R83). The rifle found outside barrack 28 (Pros.Ex.2) bore the number 1594722 and* had been issued to Wheeler who also* identified tMs rifle as the one issued to Mm (R86,135-137).

Private J.C. Wheeler, Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion was stationed at Iron Gates Camp and occupied the same barrack with accused and five other soldiers. He last saw accused at "chow" about 6:00 p.m. 28 September. After supper Wheeler went by truck to a "show" given at Tottenham House*, left when it was over at about 10-10:30 p.m., returned to Ms quarters and went to bed. When he returned accused ?/as not in Ms bunk which "was made up just like he made it up-that-morning" (R8O-83).' Wheeler was seen at supper about 6:30 p.m. and was also accompaMed to the theater between 7-7:30 p.m. by Private First Class Sylvester McCormack, Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion who sat beMnd him during the entire performance which ended* about 10:00 p.m. McCormack also rode back to camp on a truck with Wheeler (R89-90). Private George F. Hunt, Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion saw Wheeler sitting beMnd Mm at the theater (R93).

Between 11:30 - 12:15 a.m. 28-29 September, Second Lieutenant Carl* H. Schneider, Company C, 248th Quartermaster Battalion, and Captain Raymond P. Logan of the same company began a bed-check, each taking one half of the company area (R64,74)» Lieutenant Schneider found accused's bunk vacant, it "had not been touched and the fatigue clothes were neatly piled on top of it" (R74-75). He also searched the latrine and shower rooms in Ms half-of the company, area wMch would normally be used by accused, who was not found (R77,87). Captain Logan then ordered the entire company to be assembled in the mess hall for the purpose of determining whether any weapons had been fired, and whether all carbines and "0.D" caps were' accounted for.' The company was assembled about 1 - 1:30

a.m. (29 September). Accused was present at tMS inspection (R64>75).

•• * •

When Wheeler was awakened and told to go to the mess hall with his rifle and "0.D" hat, he looked for Ms rifle but could not find it.

- 10 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(211)

He then took the 'only rifle left in the barrack, which was hanging at the'foot of his bed, and went to the mess hall. The rifle did not belong to him. He did not have his "O.D" cap (Pros.Ex,19) because he had loaned it- to accused on the evening of 27 September and it had not been returned. Wheeler1s own rifle had been inspected 22 September by Lieutenant Schneider and he had not given anyone permission to take it (R82-S6). At the • inspection in the mess hall about 1x15 a.m. Captain Logan examined each carbine to see if it had been fired and looked at each man to see if he was wearing'an "O.D" cap. He read off the number of each carbine to Lieutenant Schneider who checked the number with a card file showing to whom it had been issued. Captain Logan read o'ff the number of the rifle in the hands of Wheeler to Lieutenant Schneider who called for a check of that number because it did not correspond with the number of rifle issued to Wheeler. Accused then said that the carbine was his. Captain Logan again called off the number of the rifle held by Wheeler and the supply-sergeant checked the number with a numerical list of carbine numbers in order to determine to whom the rifle was issued. The list showed that it had been issued to accused, who' had- no rifle at the inspection and who told Captain Logan that he had gone into the hut and found no rifle3 there. The rifle possessed by Wheeler and the other rifles inspected did not appear to have been fired. The rifle assigned to Wheeler (Pros.Ex.2 -found outside barrack 28) was,' according to the records, the only rifle missing at the company inspection, (R6A-65,67,70,75,77). Accused appeared at the inspection in a garrison cap (R69), and Wheeler wore a fatigue cap (R68). Accused was dressed in fatigue clothing as were the other men, but his jacket was unbuttoned and his shoes unlaced (R77). He was sober but "acted extremely nervous and agitated" when he claimed the rifle

(R75).

At the trial, Captain Logan identified accused's gun which Wheeler had in his possession at the inspection, apd which was numbered 159A492. It was admitted in evidence (R69-70j ‘Pros.Ex.'23)r. He also -identified "exhibit A" (actually Pros.Ex.2) as the rifle issued to Wheeler (R68). He further testified that in the barrack in which accused and Wheeler were quartered, there were double bunks, one above the other. Wheeler and accused occupied a double bunk together. The clothing of the men was kept in barrack bags, their field equipment was on one end of their bunks, and the carbines were at the other end. The weapons were not locked and it was possible for one man to appropriate the clothing or weapon of another. Ammunition was not issuf&^ior the performance of guard duty. A check "the next day" disclosed that no ammunition was missing (R68,70-72).	* '

About 11:35 p.m., 28 September, Inspector Alexander Keiller, Special Constabulary, Marlborough received a United States army cap from Boyer. The cap (Pros.Ex,19) was marked W8A70 and was given by Keiller at Iron Gates Camp to Superintendent Walter H, Gibson, Wiltshire Constabulary about 12:55 a.m. 29 September (R56,58,128-129).	At 1:A5 a.m.

- 11 -

CONFIDENTIAL
I

CONFIDENTIAL

29 September, Superintendent Gibson received'from Lieutenant Mothershed a pair<of bloodstained American-khaki trousers'(R57,123). In the hip pocker he found a badly*bloodstained handkerchief marked with the number "3362", a pair of pigskin gloves marked inside with the initials "F.A" in red cotton, a dirty unmarked white handkerchief, and an unmarked khaki service tie. The right hand pocket contained a ,30 carbine live bullet (R57,60-61,123)At A:00 a.m. 29 September at the mess hall, Iron Gates Camp, Superintendent Gibson warned accused as to his rights, who then acknowledged ownership of the trousers and also the handkerchief marked with the number 3362. Accused said that the cap was Private Wheeler's, that he had worn it "last night" but that "to-night"*he had been wearing Philip Hall1s^wool knit cap. Accused said that the gloves belonged to ■ him, that "*** he gave them to me to-night", but that he did not know who "he" was (R57-58,114,123). '	*

Pros.Exs. 6,10,11 were identified as the trousers, bloodstained handkerchief marked 3362, and gloves in question. Pros'.Ex.l2 was identified as a shell similar to the one removed from the poclcet of the ; trousers (R57-58,66,124-125).	•

At 4*30 a.m. 29 September, Detective Sergeant Hill examined accused's undergarments and saw what appeared to be bloodstains on his underpants and shirt. No injuries or abrasions from which the' blood could come' were observed on his body but the middle finger of his .left hand appeared to be stained with blood. Scrapings were taken from underneath and above the finger nails o'f eactr hand and' placed' in separate, marked envelopes (R114-115,122,124,126). The stained underpants and, shirt (Pros.Exs.8,9) were 'identified as the ones worn by and taken fronr accused that morning. The under-pants were marked D-3362 (R66,116,121). Also identified were the envelopes containing the scrapings from accused's ' finger nails (R117,124j Pros.Ex.17).

On 30 September 1943, First Lieutenant William L. Bradford, Corps of Military Police, C3D, SOS, received from Superintendent Gibson the following exhibits* one carbine rifle, a magazine clip w'ith cartridges, an empty cartridge case, greatcoat, trousers, shirt, under-pants and underdrawers, soiled handkerchief, pair pf gloves, two envelopes containing scrapings, woolen scarf,* a cap and a mackintosh. He delivered the articles to Major William J. King, Corps of Military Police (R154-‘156; Pros.Exs. 2-11, 17-21). ’ Major King delivered them to Scotland Yard'where they were sorted for distribution to various technical experts. He again received the exhibits and they were 'returned on 7 October to Lieutenant Bradford who brought them to court (R157,166).	~

( 4

On 4 October a gun expert,-Mr. Robert Churchill, 32 Orange Street,’ Leicester Square, London was given by “Major King a .30 caliber U.S. carbine rifle No.' 1594722 (the gun issued'to Wheeler and found near barrack 28 - Pros.Ex.2), a magazine for the rifle containing 15 rounds of
CONFIDENTIAL

(213)

special carbine ammunition, and a fired shell (found by Hill near the body of Miss Lay - Pros.Ex.4), of identical make and size as the ammunition in the magazine. The rifle was automatic loading but not automatic firing, in that the trigger had to be pulled to fire each shot (R34-35). The fired shell bore four sets of markings, namely, the striker imprint and the breech face, extractor and ejector marks. Mr. Churchill fired from the gun 6 test shots. From a comparison of the extractor markings on the fired shell and those on the test shells, Mr. Churchill was of the opinion that the fired shell (Proa.Ex.4) was fired from the carbine rifle numbered 1594722, and could not have been fired from any other rifle (R35-36). Mr. Churchill used two'of the fifteen rounds of ammunition contained in the clip,' Admitted in evidence were the rifle No. 1594772 (Pros.Ex.2)', the magazines with the cartridges contained therein (Pros. Ex.3) and the fired shell (Pros.Ex.4). The defense consented to the introduction of the exhibits but objected to the withdrawal from the record of the fired shells (R36-37).	"

On 4 October' Mr. James Davidson, Director of the Metropolitan Police Laboratory, an expert pathologist, received from Major King certain property labelled as belonging to accused and Miss Fawden (R39-40). He found human bloodstains belonging t'o group "0" on the outer surface of the lining of the left pocket, and the back inner surface of the overcoat. Mixed with the bloodstains was male seminal fluid. Human bloodstains belonging to group "0" were found in the regions of the left hip and left pocket of a pair of trousers. Upon examination of a United States army shirt, Mir. Davidson found a bloodstained area on the inner surface of the left front near the lower hem. The blood belonged to group "0" and wa3 mixed with seminal fluid. Similarly, a pair of under-pants stamped "D336211 bore evidence of blood smearing mixed with seminal fluid on the front in the region of the fly opening, and the front outer surface of a cotton under-shirt was faintly smeared with blood. Extensive bloodstains were discovered on two handkerchiefs. On one of the handkerchiefs the blood, which was human in character, belonged to group "0" and was mixed with seminal staining. Nothing was found upon an examination of a pair of gloves, a scarf, an army cap and a carbine cartridge. Extensive bloodstaining belonging to group "0" and mixed with seminal fluid, was discovered in the region of the fork of a pair of caniknickers, and group "0" bloodstains were present on the inner front surface of a lady's under-vest. A suspender-belt was also bloodstained on the front lower end. Mr. Davidson discovered bloodstains near the foot of a' torn-pair of lady's- stockings. An examination of two envelopes containing scrapings purporting to be from the nails of the left and right hand of accused, showed evidence of the presence of blood on both hands. The defense stating- that there was no objection to the admission in evidence of these exhibits provided that their connection with the case was sub-* sequently established, they were admitted in eviderice,- subject to such condition, as follows:	over^(Pr-os.Ex.5), trqusers (Pros.Ex.6), "shirt '

(Pros.Ex.7), under-pants (Pros.Ex.8), "under-shirt (Pros.Ex.9), one hand-
(214)

CONFIDENTIAL

kerchi'ef ‘(Fros.Ex.10), gloves (Pro"s.Ex.ll), .30 caliber Carbine cartridge (Pros.Ex.12), camiknickers (Pros.Exf.13), lady’s under-vest (Pr03.Ex.i4), suspender-belt (Pros.Ex.15), lady's stockings (Pros".Ex.l6), two envelopes containing scrapings (Pros.Ex.17;, scarf (Pros.Ex.13) and army cap (Pros. Ex.19) (R40-46).

Mr. Davidson further testified that there are four blood groups,

0, A, B and AB. He did hot examine all blood spots on the articles but did examine at least one bloodstain on each garment. The blood type of the stains examined was "0" in every instance. The bloodstains on the female clothing was not menstrual (R46-47).

At 4*00 p.m. 30 September, Major Ferris U. Foster, Chemical Warfare Service, SBS saw accused, told him that he had been appointed investigating officer and informed him as to the nature of the charges (R139-140,15l). Major Foster read Article of War 24 to accused and asked if he understood it. When he replied that he did not, the major "went to some length to explain to him exactly what it meant:* that if he did not wish to answer any question or make any statement, say anything about any question that I might ask him if it was in his estimation against him - -and I used that term because I thought that he might best understand it -he did not have to answer”. 'Accused signified that he understood the provision^ of Article of War 24 (R140,147). At that time Major Foster, who had 'been appointed investigating officer at 5*00 p.m., -29 September had not interviewed the British constabulary. As Miss Fawden was too ill to undergo an extensive examination, he had visited her at the hospital and asked her to identify her signature on a statement she had made on * the previous day to another officer. He read this statement to accused together with two other statements, one from a "Commanding Officer"- and one from Wheeler. ' The three statements comprised the only testimony available at the time. Accused wa3 also given the name of one witness appearing on the charge sheet, and was informed that Miss Fawden's illness was the reason why she was-not'examined in his presence. He was also told that he could question the persons who had made the other two statements, that he had the right to cross-examine witnesses, and could preseAt anything he desired in his own behalf subject to the risk of it being used against him. Accused stated that he would accept the testimony as shown’to him (R143-144,151-152).

After accused was placed Under oath he answered several questions asked him by Major Foster. After reading over his"statement given in answer to these questions," accused deleted a good portion of the statement (R141,143-144,146) and requested that he be allowed to "write out a substituted statement telling "how it happened"; Accused wrote the second statement himself after being told by Major Foster that he did.not have* to make the statement unless he so desired (R140-141 > 143-144). The second statement written by accused was then typed by a Maj or Warner and compared word for word by Major Foster with the statement written by accused. The four typed copies were read over with accused by Major Foster after he was

-14'-

CONFIDENTIAL
(215)

CONFIDENTIAL

'	i	*

asked if he wanted to substitute it in lieu of the answered questions, and. accused then signed the original typed statement and at least one copy thereof* He was given his original handwritten second statement and it was burned* Accused asked that he be allowed to send a note to "the girl in the hospital" and wrote a few words at the end of one of the copies of his typed statement. Major Foster delivered this to Miss Fawden (B141-142,149-150). He identified the original <5f the four type-written copies of the statement signed by accused in his presence (R142), and also the note which was written by accused to Miss Fawden and delivered to her (R149-150)." The statement and note were admitted in evidence over the objection of the defense (R144>148,150; Pros.Exs. AA, BB).

The statement of Accused admitted in evidence was as follows:.

"Statement of lee Andrew Davis

On Arsday 28 Sept 1943 I bee A Davis eat supper and got my rifle and went thruogh the forrest to town and-when'I got to town I went to several pubs and bought beer, wine and scotch. Me and some soldiers and I drink some beer with some asprins in it, and then I left to come home when I got up the street I picked up my rifle where I left it and went up the street and I caught up with 2 girls and I spoke to them and ask them where they going and the told me and I told them to wait and go over in the forest and they did not and I told them I'was going to shoot and I thought I had the gun in the air and I pulled the trigger two or three times and one girl fell and the other ran but I didn't know I had shot her’because I was pretty intoxicated with beer and asprens and scotch and I didn't think she was shot either did the other girl because she said the girl might’turn it in,'

I didn't have an intention of shoting her because I didn't intend to carry the rifle all the way in town, and the other ' girl and I went ovpr in the woods. I know I have committed a crime and should be punished for it but I didn't mean to kill anyone, I wasn't in my right mind then and it was an’accident because I thought I had the gun in the air.

All I ask of you all will you spare my life. I am sorry I did what I did but

- 15 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(216)

CONFIDENTIAL

life

I know It won't bring back the girls/and I am sorry and I want all'the Christians to pray for me.

/s/ Lee Andrew Davis .

The above statement was typed in its exact spelling from penciled, notes written by and at the suggestion of Lee Andre* Davis.

The statement was typed in'four (A.) copies, one of which was given to Davis on his request to.be allowed to send a note to the girl:ini the hospital. He wrote'the note on the. bottom.of the fourth copy, signed it, and gave it to me for delivery.

He then signed.the other three copies, one of which was given to Major King, CMP.

. /s/ Ferris D. Foster FERRIS U. FOSTER ■ Major, CWS

Investigating Officer." - (Ex. AA).

The following note was delivered to Mis3 Fawden by Major Foster on behalf of accused*

"To the girl in.Hospital

.'I am sorry fob what happen! the other night and I want your forgiveness and will •	you pray for me like you- said.

/s/ Lee Andrew Davis "	(Ex. BB).

The defense entered a "plea of>abatement to any further proceeding in the matter" on the ground that "the investigation required under the 70th Article of War and the provisions of 35a of the Manual have not been complied with" (R152)• The plea was overruled. The summary of evidence and the report of investigation made by Major Foster was identified by that officer and admitted in evidence with the consent of the defense "not as evidence in the case itself" but solely" with resp'ect to the plea in' abatement (R153, Ex'. CC).

-4. The defense introduced evidence that the laundry for the members of the company was sent to a cbntract launderer in Chippenham. Each man would turn in his bundle, marked faith his name, to the supplv . sergeant who would check the items and send them to the laundry (R189). Individuals were frequently fbund in the possession of laundry and other issue material belonging to'another person. Prior to departure from the United States each member of the organization marked both his clothing and equipment with the first initial of his last name and the last four digits of his serial number (R190). If accused's serial number was 18023362 the identification on.his clothing would be D3362 (R19l).
CONFIDENTIAL

(217)

When clothing was issued information as to the date, size and amount of the clothing concerned was entered in the company records (R195)• According to these records the clothing issued accused included among other articles two pairs of wool "O.D" trousers, the waist being 33 and the length of the leg 31. He was never issued wool “O.D” trousers with a 31 waist and a 33 leg (R19l). It was common practice for members of the organization to have clothing altered but the measurements in the company records would remain unchanged (R192-193,199). Trousers similar in style to Pros.Ex.6 had been issued (R196-197). The trousers admitted in evidence as Pros.Ex.6 were measured in court and the waist was found to be 32 and the "inseam" about 29 (R198-199). Accused, at his own request put on the trousers and it was recorded that they were "*** close fitting when properly fastened, and a little short in the leg" (R204-) •

Accused, after being warned of his rights (R200), made an unsworn statement in substance as follows:

After supper on the evening of 28 September he had a nose bleed, stopped it and went to his hut where he remained until 7:30- 7:A5. He then went to the NAAFI, remained about one hour and fifteen or twenty minutes, returned to liis hut and took a shower. He went back to the NAAFI and then returned to his hut about 10 o'clock "or a little after" where, he lay down with his "fatigues on. As he had been drinking beer that evening he had to get up during the night to go to the latrine. On the way to the latrine he met some soldiers who told him to get his rifle and "O.D" cap and go to the mess hall. He found his "O.D" cap in his barracks bag, but his rifle was missing. At the mess hall when Captain Logan called Wheeler's name and checked the number of the rifle in his possession, accused told the captain that the rifle belonged to him (R201-202).

" After he got through checking the rifle he said that all men in hut 1A to remain in the mess hall. _ AfterY/ard they called me in and questioned"me. A fellow told me, he said 'I am from the Police Department. He held up a cap and asked me did I know"it. I told him JNo' and he said 'take it and look at it.' I took the cap and looked at it and I see the number in1 it and I said.'It's Wheeler's.' He asked me How do you know it's Wheeler's' I ' said 'It's the- one that he let me wear on Monday' which was the 20th or 21st - the day . I had a day off; Then he asked me, this police officer asked me, he said, 'Whose gloves did you have in your pocket?' I told him they were mine, and he asked me 'Where did you get them?' I said 'A boy found them and gave them to me.' I thought he was talking about the gloves that I had in the

- 17 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

i

pocket with the number T004-7, which some boy in the Company lost, but I don't'know who he was. Then he showed me the gloves he was talking about and they were white gloves, and I told him I didn't know.

Afterwards they took off a pair“of shorts and an undershirt of mine and he asked me * no he took them - no he. asked me first 'whose cap did you wear tonight?'

I told him I wore Philip Hall's and he held up an O.D. capand said 'Like this?' and'I told him 'No, a wool-knit cap.' 'Then he took off the undershirt and pair'of shorts off of my body. The shorts were marked with one of my serial numbers, the undershirt was not marked though the shorts was marked like some of my clothing. I'd lost some of my clothing. I'd said something to the supply sergeant about it, but he said we would probably have field clothing and wouldn't get it for six months, so it was about 5 a.m. then, at least they were making reveille. I lett to come to Tid-worth Garrison stockade.- I got there about 7 a.m. in the morning and ?;ent to work and about 2 p.m.•the sergeant at Tidworth came down and got me and sent me to-’ Shepton Mallet, I got there about A.30'or 5 p.m.

I taken a shower and eat and went into my cell. Then about ten o'clock the sergeant that was on duty at Shepton Mallet gave me some blankets so I could go to sleep. I was then woke up approximately twelve o'clock on the night of the 29th and questioned until about A.30 or 5 a.m. on the morning of the 30th. by Major king.

I then went back into my cell and stayed until approximately 9 a.m. At’ nine o'clock we were ready to go to Tot House. We arrived here a little after ten or eleven o'clock. I was questioned by Major King and Major Foster until noon, I went and eat and come back at about 12.30 or 1 O'clock. Major King and Major Foster taken me out some * place to show them something. Anyway I couldn't show them what they wanted to see, so they brought me back about two o'clock on the 30th - that was the day of the 30th.

Then they questioned me here approximately till 2.30 or close 3 o'clock. Then Major

- 18 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(219)

Foster taken me In a room and he read something to me and asked me did 1 understand.

I told him 1No' and he tried to explain it to me, and asked me did I understand' it then, 1 and I said 'I guess, so1 and then he questioned me and asked me-questions and I guess he didn't like the statement I told him, so he asked me he said 'Davis, I am going to read three statements to you'.	■

He read the statements and he said, 'This statement here I know is true, because the lady that made it she is not the type to' lie,• or 'She don't have no right to lie' or words to that effect, and then after he got through reading he asked me did I want to cross-examine the witness. I told him I did want to cross-examine the person, whoever made that statement, and he said she was a lady and she was sick in the hospital and I could not see her, and about that time Major King came into the room.

Major Foster said 'This is your third and last chance to make a statement' and Major King said 'You are not fooling us, you are only fooling yourself'. I asked Major King and said 'What, do you want me to do, make a- statement like ‘the one you just read out to me?' and Major Foster said 'Hof I want you to make a statement of your own.'

And I sat'there a few moment and asked Major King - let's see - Major Foster asked him to let me see ]that statement', then I could -write one. He let me have the statement and I copied off the statement and added some to it; after that, Major told me he was my friend, to write-it. After I was about through writing I tore it up because it wasn't so, and Major King said, 'All, right, that's confidential, and it can be used against you or for you' or something like that. He said 'We hold the rifle and we can tell who it is by the rifle* and after that he said 'Why don't you write the girl in the hospital a letter and tell her you are sorry' and he . told me to write-it and I did,,and he said 'Sign it, and these papers and Major Foster and I will go take it to her.'

, Then after I signed it I tore up some part of it - the one that I had wrote, and throwed them in the fire, and he asked me

- 19 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(220)

CONFIDENTIAL

’Now do you want to give this to me’ and I told him ’No, I did not’ and then he >

^sked me'did I want him to give the statement to the girl. I told him ’If he wanted to’.' The reason I. made the statement was because Major King told me that he was my friend, and the statement could not be used against me nor for me, and he had the rifle and the,rifle could tell who it'was, and I know that I had not had no rifle." {R202-203).	.	,

’ * *	.	•	I

5.	(a) Pros.Exs. 5-19’were admitted in evidence with the consent of

the defense subject to the condition that their connection with the case . be subsequently established. The exhibits were finally admitted in evidence (R188). The Board of Review is of the opinion that with the possible exception of the lady's scarf (ProstEx.l8), their admission was proper and that their-connection with the case was sufficiently established. The Board is also of the opinion that the prosecution had established a proper foundation for the admission of the photographs A,''9,0 and D which were admitted in evidence qver the objection of the defense (R24) (MCM.,

1928, par.llSb, p.122). Similarly the objection by the defense to the reading by a witness of the first initial of accused's last name and the last four letters of his serial number on,the shirt and overcoat, was properly not sustained -(R173>175) . , These exhibits had been admitted in evidence subject to their connection with the case and the fact that accused's identification marks were on the shirt ;and overcoat were part of the proof establishing such a connection. ‘

(b) The defense objected to the testimony of Miss Bell that at 12:25 a.m., 29 September Miss Fawden was very distressed and hysterical when she appeared at the-hospital (R95). The defense also objected to the statements by Miss Fawden to Constable Boyer that she had. been raped twice by a colored soldier, that he had "fired two shots at June and marched me off to some haystacks in the forest with a rifle pointing in my ribs," and that it would be tei^ible if she had a black baby. , The court admitted the testimony on the theory of res geatae (R103-10A,106-107). It was about 8:10 p.m. when the witness Browning heard\two shots and ran to the-place where Miss Lay was found. It was "just after eight o'dock" when the lorry driver Beasley noticed her body lying in the road. About 12:10 a.m. Miss Fawden was found by Boyer. There was no definite evidence as to what time the offense of rape was committed during the interval of four hours, and accordingly.it was difficult to determine whether Miss Fawden's remarks to Boyer were too far removed in point of time from the commission of that offense to constitute part of the res gestae. . However, it is not necessary to base the admissibility of Miss Bell’s and certain portions of Boyer's testimony on the theory, of res gestae. In cases 'involving the offense of rape the weight of authority is that one to whom a complaint i3

: - 20 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(221)

made may testify as to the making of the complaint by the prosecutrix, her physical condition and appearance, and the state of her clothing at the time. Testimony by the witness concerning.the details of the outrage as stated by the prosecutrix are, however, inadmissible (Coppage v. State, 137 Pac.2d (Okla.) 797} CL3 ETO 709, Lakes).

In view of the foregoing, Miss Bell’s testimony as to the victim’s distressed and hysterical condition, when she came to the hospital and Boyer’s testimony that she informed him that she had been raped twice by a colored soldier were admissible'in evidence." The statement that it would Be terrible if she had a black baby was not only corroborative of her statement that she had been raped twice by a colored soldier, but ■ also partly explained and was'indicative of her greatly distressed physical condition. Her statements that, after firing two shots at Miss Lay, he marched her off to some haystacks in the forest with a rifle pointing in her ribs were details of the incident and were improperly admitted in evidence. However, Miss Fawden herself testified without objection by the defense that after Miss Lay was shot, accused threatened on several occasions to shoot the witness and took her into- some haystacks. Such testimony was clearly admissible. Because of this and other competent evidence establishing accused's guilt of the offense of rape, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the improper admission of this statement did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused (CM ETO 709, Lakas: CM ETO 611, Porter). For the foregoing reasons, the court also properly overruled the objection by the d dfense concerning the testimony of the witness Smith to the effect that when found Miss"Fawden was exlaim-ing "My God, ray God, where am I *** I have been raped" (R109-111).

(c)	The defense also objected to the admission in evidence' of accused’s statement to Major Foster, as well as his note to Miss Fawden, delivered to her by the major at his request, and entered a "plea in abatement to any further proceedings in the matter" on the ground that "the investigation required under the 70th Article of War and the provisions of 35a of the Manual have not been complied with", (R144,14-8,152).

The evidence shows conclusively that accused was thoroughly warned as to his rights by Major'Foster,"informed as to the nature of the testimony then available, was definitely told that any statement he made might be used against him, and that he was not compelled to make any statement or to answer any questions if he believed that it might be "against him".

The provisions of Article of War 2U were carefully explained to him and he said that he understood its provisions. He wrote the statement introduced in evidence (Ex. AA) after he requested that he be allowed to tell "how it happened" and after being told that he did not have to make the statement. He'signed the statement voluntarily and without any coercion. The note (Ex. BB) which was delivered to Miss Fawden was written by accused of his own volition without suggestion by others, and contained a clear implication of his guilt. Both the statement and the note were properly admitted in evidence. The "plea'in'abatement" was a misnomer as such a plea relates to an objection to a charge or specifica-

- 21 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(222)

tion in matters of form only (MCM., 1928, par.66, pp.51-52). The claim by the defense that the investigation was hot in conformance with Article of War 70 and the provisions of paragraph 35a of the Manual was based upon the*contention that the investigation was in the nature of "an inquisition" (R144)• : On the contrary, as shown by the evidence the investigation was fair and impartial and all rights of accused were fully protected. In support of‘its'argument,the defense cited a case in which the record disclosed that no investigation had been made prior to trial.

It was held therein that the provisions of Article of War 70 with respect to an investigation of the charges were mandatory and that there must’be a substantial compliance therewith before charges could be legally referred for trial. It was further held that as a consequence the proceedings were void ab initio (Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, sec.428(1), p.292; CM 161728,

1924). However, the cited case is no longer applicable as it has since been held that the requirements of Article of War 70 with respect'to the investigation of charges before trial "are not jurisdictional" (CM 229477, Floyd. 30 January 1943).

; (d) The' court properly overruled the objection by the defense to Lieutenant Schneider's testimony that accused "acted extremely nervous and agitated" when he claimed his rifle at the company inspection (R75-76).

Such testimony was plainly admissible as it was the result of ordinary visual observation and did not require expert knowledge. (20 Am.Jur. Evidence, sec.823, p.692j Underhill's Criminal Evidence- 4th Ed.- sec.231, p.432j CM ET0 804, Ogletree et al).

(e)	The president of the court at the opening of the trial included, in his instructions to the;press that "*** there must be no reference to color in your descriptions or any articles of the trial in this court"

(R3). Whether or not-the president was authorized to give this instruction to the press, it certainly was not'prejudicial to accused.

(f)	The reviews of the Staff Judge Advocate, SBS, ET0USA and of the Assistant Theater Judge Advocate, ET0USA contain discussions of several minor irregularities appearing in the record of trial and further comment thereon is deemed unnecessary.■

6. Rape is the unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman by force and without her consent (MCM., 1928, par.148b, p.165).- Although at the trial Miss Fawden was not asked if she could, identify her assailant, the evidence is clear and convincing that accused was the man involved and that he committed the offense alleged. His note toiMiss Fawden containing his apology for "what happend the other night" clearly implicates accused. He admitted'in his statement to Major Foster that he went into the woods with the "other girl" after one of the two girls was shot. He also admitted to Superintendent Gibson that he owned the trousers in the pocket of which the victim's gloves marked "F.A" and his own bloodstained handkerchief were found. Wheeler's cap, which accused had borrowed the previous evening but had not returned, was found in the immediate vicinity of the place

- 22 -

confidential

t
CONFIDENTIAL

where the girl's mackintosh and scarf were discovered. Both his outer and inner clothing were bloodstained and in part stained with seminal fluid, and Miss Fawden's underclothing was also stained with blood and bore evidence of seminal fluid. The scrapings from accused's nails showed evidence that blood was present on each of his hands. His blood and that of Mis3 Fawden both belonged to group "0", but an examination during the early morning hours of 29 September disclosed that accused had no injuries or abrasions on his body which would have caused any bleeding.

The testimony of Mss Fawden that an American colored soldier had carnal knowledge of her twice, was corroborated by the testimony of Constable Boyer who found her just after midnight in a distressed and hysterical condition. She told him that she had been raped twice by a colored soldier. Her testimony wa3 further corroborated by that of Dr. Maupice who found upon examination about 20 minutes later that there was considerable dried blood and bruising about her genitals, and that her hymen had been recently torn and lacerated. In his opinion the injuries had been caused by the introduction of a male "organ" and penetration had occurred.

The testimony of Miss Fawden as to the details of the actual commission of the offense itself was limited to the statement that she "had no option but to give in to him", that he "forced" her again, and-that by "forced" she meant' that he had carnal knowledge of her. However, there could be no doubt that she meant that accused had actually raped her and the corroborating evidence clearly demonstrates this fact. Her testimony that she had to "give in" to her .assailant because the man had threatened to shoot her, was. corroborated in part by the admission contained in accused's statement to Major Foster that he had a rifle in his possession when he met the two girls. The circumstances to which Miss Fawden testified fully justify the inference that she did not in fact consent, that accused had carnal knowledge of her by force, and that any lack of or cessation of resistance' was attributable to her fear of great bodily injury or death. Such being the facts rape was committed (Wharton's Criminal law, 12th Ed., sec.701, pp.9,42,944; CM 227909, Scarborough).

I	II	I

There was evidence that on the first day of trial the girl's condition was still rather critical, that large doses of hypnotics were still being administered, that she was excitable and more than ordinarily emotional. Such testimony was admissible to corroborate the victim's testimony and to show the probability that a rape was committed (CM ETO 611, Porter: Underhill's Criminal Evidence, 4th Ed., sec.671, p.1262).

The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 2 of the Charge.

'7. Murder is legally defined as follows:

-23-

■rjUFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

"Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. ’Unlawful* means without legal justification or excuse ***." (MCH,, 1928, sec.148a, p.162).

The important element of murder, namely, "malice aforethought" has been analyzed as follows:

"The term malice, as ordinarily employed in .	criminal	law, is a strictly legal term,

meaning, not personal spite or hostility ' but simply the wrongful intent essential to the commission of crime. When used, however, in connection with the word ’aforethought’ or ’prepense’, in defining the particular crime of murder, it signifies .the same evil intent, as the result of a determined purpose, premeditation, deliberation or brooding and therefore as indicating, in the view of the law, a malignant or depraved nature, or, as the early writer, Foster, has expressed it,

"a heart regardless of social duty, and fatally bent on mischief'. The deliberate • purpose need not have been long entertained; it is sufficient if it exist at the moment of the act. Malice aforethought is either 'express' or .'implied'; express where the intent, - as manifested by *** threats, the absence of any or of sufficient provocation, etc.- is to take the life of the particular person killed, or, since a specific purpose to kill is not J essential to constitute murder, to inflict on him some excessive bodily injury which mav naturally result in death:	implied.

where the intent is to commit a felonious or unlawful act but not to kill or injure the particular person ***; ***." (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents, 2nd Ed.. Reprint, pp.672-673) (Underscoring supplied).

There is no doubt that accused was the man who shot Miss Lay.

Miss Fawden testified that her assailant was the same person who shot Miss Lay. Accused wrote a note of.apology to Miss Fawden for what had occurred. In his statement to Major Foster, he admitted that when he told the two girls to go over in hhe forest and they failed to do so, he told them he was going to shoot, that he thought he had the gun "in the air", that he pulled the trigger two or three times and "one girl fell" while the other ran.

- 24 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(225)

The evidence shows that the colored American soldier first accosted the girls, asked where they ware going, and upon being told they were going to the hospital asked "How far is that?" He then dropped behind them. Suddenly Miss Fawden heard a voice say "Stand still, or I'll shoot". Upon turning around the girls saw a colored American soldier levelling a rifle at them. He told them to get into the bushes on the other side of V the road. The girls tried "to stall him" and said "it was much better / further down the road". They walked backwards, facing the soldier who still pointed the rifle at them. ’ Miss Lay suddenly told Miss Fawden to run. Both girls ran. Mss Fawden being in front. She heard shots, turned around and saw Mss Lay still running. She heard more shots, turned around again and saw Miss Lay who screamed, threw up her arms and roll over in the road. Mss Fawden continued to run, heard more shots, "had the impression of bullets whistling past" her, and stopped because she thought "the next one would go in my back". The soldier then caught up with her and dragged her through some barbed wire.

The facts thus disclosed form a substantial basis for the court's findings that accused was guilty of murder, and that he killed Miss Lay with malice aforethought "manifested by threats, the absence of any or of sufficient provocation". The testimony of Mss Fawden that he told them to get into the bushes and threatened 'to shoot them is corroborated by the statement made to Major Foster by accused himself.~ His actions show a cold, deliberate purpose either to kill Mss Lay or to at least inflict on her "some excessive bodily injury which may naturally result in death".

(CM ETO 739, Maxwell).

Accused, in his statement to Major Foster asserted that he did not know that he had shot the girl because he was "*** pretty intoxicated with beer and asprens and scotch ***", The only other evidence with respect to intoxication was the testimony of Lieutenant Schneider that accused was sober at the company inspection about 1:30 a.m. 29 September. Accused also in his statement asserted that the shooting of Mss Lay was accidental as he thought he had the gun "in the air". The issues of intoxication and accidental death were questions of fact for the exclusive determination of the court.

The evidence shows that Miss Lay was killed by a bullet fired from Wheeler's rifle and that his cap was found-in the immediate vicinity of the killing and near where Mss Fawden's scarf and mackintosh were discovered. However, any question as to Wheeler's implication in the commission of the offenses alleged- was obviated by the testimony of Wheeler, corroborated by that of other witnesses, which clearly accounted for his movements on the evening in question.	-	•

In the opinion of the Board of Review, the offense ’of murder alleged in Specification 1 of the Charge was proved beyond all, reasonable doubt. *

- 25 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(226)

8.	The charge sheet shows that accused was 20 years 8 months of age at the time, of the commission of the offense. .. lie enlisted March 25, 1941 for a period of. three years* • He had no pjdor service*

. J

. 9* The court* was legally constituted an4 had jurisdiction of the person and offenses; No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. : • The Board of Review' is of the opinion-that the record of :trial, is legally sufficient: to support the findings' of • guilty and; the sentence* - The penalty for murder or rape* is death; or. life imprisonment: as the court-martial, may :direct.<(AW;92)..

The sentence that accused ^be .hanged by1 the neck, until dead ^is. legal (CM • ETO 438 - Smith:-CM ETO 255 - Co^j MCM., 1928, par*103a, p.93).

< - 26

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

/

(227)

1st Ind.

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. " 3 DEC 1943 TOs Commanding General, ETOUSA, U.S. Army, APO 887,

1.	In the case of Private LEE A. DAVIS (18023362), Company "C", 248th Quartermaster Battalion (Service), attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved,

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the record of trial, the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 969, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 969),

3.	Should the sentence as imposed by the court be carried into execution.it is requested that a full copy of the proceedings be furnished this office in order that its files may be complete.

t zf C. licNEIL, ^ Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

1 Incis

Record of Trial.

(Sentence ordered executed. GClfiD 27, ETO, A Dec 1943)

#(229)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations

APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW

ETO 970	,

UNI I E D	STATES	),

v,	|

Captain FRANKLIN A. McCARTNET ) (0-3104.06), (Quartermaster • ) Corps.	)

3 0 NOV 1943.

VIII AIR FORCE COMPOSITE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at * Wilmont House, Dunmurry, Northern Ireland, on 21 October 1943* Sentence:	Dismissal.

- - ■' - - - - - - - 1

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN-BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has been examined by the Board of Review and. the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.

%	I	••

2.	The accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:

CHARGE: Violation of the '85th Article of War.

Specification:	In	that	Capt, Franklin A. McCartney,

Gen Depot G-10, was, at Wilmont House, Dunmurry,

Northern Ireland, on or about 10 October 1943* found drunk while on duty as Officer of the Day.

He pleaded not guilty td and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, VIII Air Force Composite Command, approved the sentence and "pursuant to Article of War 50§" directed'that the "execution of the sentence" be "withheld".	The Board 'of Review has treated the

record of trial as if forwarded as directed by Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and pursuant to Article of War 50^-, withheld the execution thereof. ,

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

3* The prosecution's evidence was substantially as follows:

Captain Charles J. Martin, Infantry, Headquarters Commandant of the Northern Ireland Base Section, was on 17 September 1943, Headquarters Commandant of the Northern Ireland District. He identified Ex. A as the roster for Duty Officer for the period from 18 September to 19 October, posted on the officer'A bulletin board at headquarters, Wilmont House (R7). The roster showed accused was'assigned to duty on 10 Octbber 1943*’ The duty hours were from'four o'clock P.M. until the same hour the following afternoon. The roster was. captioned "Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA" (R8), and was signed by Major Wilcox in behalf of Colonel Dierking, then Commanding Officer of the Northern Ireland District.'- There was no other official notice given

(R9).	~	'	-

. Major Frank P. Wilcox, Jr., A.G.D., was on 10 October 1943, Adjutant General of the Northern Ireland Base Command at Wilmont, and prior to that time was Adjutant of the Northern Ireland District at the same location. About 4*00 o’clock P.M., the customary time for the officer of the day to report for duty, witness met Captain McCartney coming up the stairs on 10 October 1943. He was dressed in service uniform' and wearing side arms.

* .. "When I met Captain McCartney on the stairs he stopped me and asked me about reporting. He . asked me if I cared to take his report as new officer of the day. Captain Hensley was not there — he was old officer, of the day — but Captain McCartney had the guard book with him at the time so I said, *1 accept your report} there are no special instructions,1 and he saluted and went on duty" (R12).

About 5*15 p.m., witness saw accused in the bar but did not speak to him. However, about 6:10 p.m.*	*	-

'"Major Gabel came into me in the dining-room and asked me if Captain McCartney wa3 duty ■ officer. . I told him he was and he left and a few minutes later Colonel Andrew came in and said, 'Is Captain McCartney duty officer', and I said, 'yes' and he said, 'I believe he is drunk. I want him relieved, another officer put on duty and put him in arrest of quarters'"

,(102).

Major Wilcox then went into the hall and found accused "leaning against the wall with a few officers grouped around him", ordered Lieutenant Robbins to take accused's side arms, told accused he was under arrest

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(231)

and directed that he be taken to the hospital for examination. He had no conversation with accused but noticed that his speech was very slow.

His eyes and facial expression were unusual and he appeared bewildered.

He was intoxicated (R13). The Ma jor identified Ex.B as Staff Memorandum No.2, Instructions for the officer of the day at Northern Ireland District Headquarters in effect on 10 October 1943* These instructions are dated ( 29 December 1942 and captioned,"Headquarters, Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA" (R14). They are signed by Major Wilcox for Colonel Dierking who was Commanding Officer of the Northern Ireland District at that time. * The proper method of reporting is for the old officer of the day apd the new to report together to the Adjutant General or Chief of Staff, He explained that the old officer of the day reports at the office, hands over the guard book and reports any unusual' occurrences. The new officer of the day reports, receives any special instructions and is given custody of the guard book. He stated he was in his office on 10 October but neither the new or old officer of the day reported there. He was on the stairway en route to his office at 4 o’clock and he denied that, when he met him on the stairs, he told accused "Go to my office —I’ll be right up" (R15). He did not recall whether accused was wearing a raincoat. At the time he saw accused he was returning to his office on the ground floor (R16). On further questioning he said ho was not in his office at 4 o’clock but was there shortly thereafter} that he did not officially relieve the old officer of the day as he did not see him, Accused was hot drunk when he reported as officer of the day on the stairs (R17) and looked quite normal (R18),

Major Francis S. Gabel, Infantry, was Assistant Chief of Administration of Northern Ireland Base Section on 10 October 1943* He testified that on that datel

n*#** at about 5«15 p»m., I came down to the bar and Captain McCartney was standing at the bar wearing a belt and gun. I offerred to buy him a drink and he bought it for me,.

I asked him if he was officer of the day and he said he was and I told him he’d better not drink any more. I came into the lounge and sat there until about six o’clock when I saw Captain McCartney being assisted from the bar by two officers.)' (R19)'»

Accused was then drunk.' He had on a regulation blouse, trousers, a cap with cover and was wearing the gun and web belt of the officer of the day (R19).

Colonel George S. Andrew, General Staff Corps, Headquarters, Northern Ireland Base Section, was on duty as Chief of Staff of that headquarters on 10 October 1943 at Wilmont House. . He testified*

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

nI was in the lounge which is adjacent to the bar and my attention was called to an • officer's' condition.' I; went out into'the hall and saw an officer being conducted through the hall by another officer. I asked him.what his name was and if he was officer of the day. I forget whether or not he gave me his name but he did state that he was officer of 'the day.' He was wearing belt and side arms at the time.

He was obviously drunk, so drunk < that he had to be assisted through the hall by another officer. **■*. As soon as I had definitely established him as officer of the day I directed the Adjutant t6 relieve him and to detail another officer to duty and place Captain McCartney under arrest : in quarters* I later instructed the Adjutant to have him sent to the hospital for observation, (R2l), *** to determine whether or not he was drunk and if not to find out what was wrong with him." (R22).

First Lieutenant Donald L. Robbins, Chemical Warefare Services) Ordnance Section, General Depot G-10, about 5*15 p.m. of 10 October 1943, was in the lounge of headquarters when accused came into the bar and spoke to him. When the dinner bell rang and he went out*in the hall he heard Major Wilcox ask who was next.in line for.officer of the day and when he answered that he was, the Major told him to take over the duties of officer of the day, place accused'under arrest and take him* to the hospital which he did. He took accused's side arms and got the guard book but he did not report officially (R23-25)•.

* / *

Captain James A. Campbell, Medical Corps, lDth Station Hospital . was Medical Officer of the Day on 10 October 1943 at above' hospital and admitted accused that night as a patient for examination and observation.

Re examined accused at 7t15, at 7:40 and at 8:00 that night (R25) and found the pupils of his eyes were sluggish to lightj his speech was -thickened with some looseness of the lips. He walked on a wide base, staggered as he turned'and had difficulty in carrying out commands to walk, halt and turn. There was some .impairment of co-ordination on the mental side.

It was dull and slow. In the opinion of Captain Campbell accused was ' drunk (R26).

4.	Evidence for the defense was in substance as follows:	_	•

It was stipulated between the prosecution and defense that if ■ Kenneth R. Hensley, Captain, Infantry, Assistant T. & S. Officer, Northern Ireland Base Section, were present in court and sworn he would testify in
CONFIDENTIAL

(233)

accordance with his signed statement which was admitted in evidence and marked "Exhibit C". Captain Hensley's statement related that on 10 October 1943 at about 4*00 p.in. he was sitting in his office on the second floor of Wilmont House, Headquarters, Northern Ireland Base Section when accused came in and stated that he was ready to relieve Captain Hensley as Officer of the Day. Captain Hensley asked accused if he had brought the guard book and accused stated that he had and put it down in front of Captain Hensley who was the Officer of the Day. He signed the book and handed it back to accused. Further Captain Hensley stated:

"The published order for the changing of the officer of the day provides that the old officer of the day and the new officer of the day report together to the adjutant at 1600 hours, at which time the old officer of the day is relieved and the New officer of the day takes over the duties of officer of the day. This method of changing the officer of the day has been effect for several months and I have gone through this procedure many times." (R28).

The adjutant's office was on the second-floor of Vfilmont House. Captain Hensley at this time asked accused if he noticed whether the adjutant was in his office. Accused informed Captain Hensley that the adjutant was not. Accused then left the office taking the guard book with him. Captain Hensley never heard more from either accused nor the adjutant nor did he report to .the adjutant terminating his period of-duty as the old officer of the day (R28}»

I *	*	I

Major Frank P. Wilcox, Jri, recalled as a defense witness, identified Ex."D" as the General Order dated 4 October inactivating the Northern Ireland District, signed by him for Colonel Dierking, Commanding Officer of that District (R29), and Ex."E" as the General Order dated 5 October 1943 announcing the opening of the Northern Ireland Base Section which he signed for General Collins. Ex."F" he identified as the General Order announcing that General Collins assumed command of the Northern Ireland Base Section (R30-31)." The military post has been at Wilmont House at all times since 17 September 1943* Captain Martin has been Headquarters Commandant and Post Commander at Wilmont House since prior to 5 October 1943 (R31-32)-. The duty roster, Ex."A", covers a period extending from before the inactivation of the Northern Ireland District until after the activation of the Northern Ireland Base Section (R32).

He testified that it was the custom to appoint Quartermaster officers, as officers of the day and that they served as such (R33)•

Accused was sworn as a witness in his own defense and testified

that he:
confidential•

"*** came to Northern Ireland on 1 September 1942, where I was at Larkfield connected with the Quartermaster Section of Northern Ireland Base Section and then when it was changed to a District,

I came to Wilmont where I was assigned to Depot G-10 where I have been since ***" (R35).-	•

He denied reporting to anybody as officer of the day on 10 October 1943» but stated thatj	-

"I came to Wilmont at the proper time to report as officer of the day. . I started up the stairs and met the Adjutant on the stairs near the bottom. I remarked that

•	I was on my way up to report as new officer of the day.- . The Adjutant threw up his hand, and said, 'O.K., go ahead* •

I walked-up the stairs and waited at the outer entrance to.the Adjutant's office.

. When I saw him on the stairs the Adjutant had something in his hand and I got the

*	impression that he was going down to his room and would be back to receive my report in a few minutes. When he did not return I went to Captain Hensley's office which was on the second floor on the other side of the building, and asked him to sign the guard book. He did so and I told him that I was waiting to report to the Adjutant but that he had not come back.

I am not absolutely positive about what Captain Hensley said but I think he said, '

'When he returns call me*. I went back to the entrance to the Adjutant's office -and waited for quite some time and when he did not come back to his office I came on down and waited at the bar" (R36).

•	' ,	1	-.	*

He waited at the Adjutant's office approximately ten minutes after going there at four o'clock. After leaving the office of Captain Hensley, who was the old officer of the day -(R36), he went back to the entrance of the Adjutant's office where-some enlisted men were laying linoleum, . They had not seen the Adjutant. He denied that he was officially reporting to Major Wilcox on the stairs (R37). After waiting, he went-downstairs to the bar and had-three double drinks between five and six o'clock.

While there Lieutenant Miles said, "Captain, your eyes are showing your drinks. You'd better get out of here and I'll go with you." Out in the

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(235)

hall he met Colonel Andrew who'questioned“him, sent'for MajorWilcdx and directed the Major to inform accused officially that he was relieved as officer of the day and to place him under arrest in quarters. Lieutenant Robbins took his pistol and belt and took accused to the hospital, where ' he stayed the night and was examined (R38). He admitted he wore his service uniform with pistol and web belt but that he had a raincoat on and it would have been impossible for Major Wilcox to have seen the belt and pistol. He stated that he did hot consider himself on duty as officer of the day and denied that he had had any drinks before five ' o'clock that he could remember. When asked if he thought Major Gabel and Colonel Andrew were mistaken when they testified that they asked if he was officer of the day and he said he was, he answered*

"I don't think so. I realized that I was being questioned as to my personal conduct, and as everybody was grouped around and I felt very conspicuous,’ the idea in my mind was to bring the interview to a close. I had expected that Colonel'Andrew would say that I had' better not drink any more. *1 wanted to get' the mob broken up and then come back later and do any explaining that was necessary." (R39).

He had not signed for the guard book and thought the old officer of the day remained, as such until he was relieved. He wa3 waiting until he found Major Wilcox before he signed the book (RAO),

Major Wilcox, recalled a3 a defense witness, identified Form 66 of the 201 file of accused which was admitted in evidence as Ex,G. The entries under "Type of duty" and "Manner of Performance" were read to the court and showed performance of duty by accused in the Quartermaster Corps as excellent and superior. He again stated .that when he saw accused on the steps he "accepted his report as new officer of the day and told him that there were no special instructions" (RA2).

Captain Martin, Headquarters Commandant on 10 October 19A3, recalled as a defense witness, stated that the. Adjutant•s office was being moved at_that time from upstairs but that he had notified no one of the move. He also stated that accused was an excellent officer (RA3-A5).

Corporal Merl Hopkins, "head orderly and bartender" at Wilmont House on 10 October, helped lay linoleum in front of the Adjutant's office upstairs and about four o'clock, saw accused who spoke to him just outside the Adjutant General's office. ■ Accused remained about fifteen minutes. Furniture was in the Adjutant's office but Major Wilcox was not around while accused was there.He was dressed in blouse, pink trousers and hat, but witness did not remember whether he wore a raincoat or side arms. The Adjutant's office was upstairs (R46-A8),
CONFIDENTIAL

(236).

Lieutenant Colonel Harold K. Holden and Captain George Cornelius, both of^Quartermaster Corps, Headquarters Northern Ireland Base Section, who had each known accused for about 4 year, gave evidence of his very good reputation as an officer (R49-50).

I .	‘

First Lieutenant Robbins, recalled as a defense witness, 'related that he received orders from Major Wilcox to take over the duties of Officer of the Day and of telling accused that he was under arrest in. quarters. He took the guard book from accused,' whom he took by the arm

to escort him out because he needed help (R5l).	.

- <

5.	Although the charge sheet fails to designate the branch and unit of accused, his Form 66 from his 201 file definitely shqws him an officer of the. Quartermaster Corps during his entire active commissioned service.

The evidence fairly proves that accused was drunk at about six o’clock on the evening of 10 October 1943• His defense wan in the nature of a confession and avoidance with evidence of his good record as a Quartermaster officer in mitigation. His claims are, first, thaii he was not the duly appointed Officer of the Day, second, that he never assumed the duties of the Officer of the Day on 10 October .1943, and, third, that as a Quartermaster Officer he could not properly be assigned to that duty.

(a)	Exhibit "A", captioned Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, Staff Memorandum, No. 20, dated 17 September 1943, is the Duty Roster for that headquarters covering the period from 18 September to 19 October 1943, In usual form and signed by Major Frank P. Wilcox, Jr., Adjutant, by order of Colonel Dierking, who is shown to have been at that time the district Commanding Officer. This roster lists accused for duty on 10 October 1943. Exhibit "D", captioned and signed like Exhibit "A”, is a General Order dated 4 October 1943, inactivating, by proper authority, Headquarters and Headquarters Detachment, Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA. Exhibit "E" is a General Order dated 5 October 1943, captioned, Headquarters, Northern Ireland Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, signed for Brigadier General Collins by Major-Frank P. Wilcox, Jr., Adjutant General. Exhibit "F" is the General Order dated also 5 October 1943, announcing that General Collins had'assumed command of the Northern Ireland Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, It therefore appears that Northern Ireland District, Western Base Section,

SOS, ETOUSA and Northern Ireland Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA were the same command with the same headquarters in Wilmont House, the same Headquarters Commandant and the same Adjutant. . General Collins, as Base Section Commander had replaced Colonel Dierking as District Commander. The court may take judicial notice that the area covered by each designation was the geographical limits of Northern Ireland. It was in fact at all times one single operating and existing command and the standing orders or details to duty would remain effective until'"changed by the new Commanding General (CM 191631 (1930), Dig.Ops., 1912-1940, sec.427(2), p.290).

- 8 -

CONFIDFNTIAJ
CONFIDENTIAL

(237)

(b)	The claim of accused that he never .assumed the duties of Officer of the Day is untenable. At the proper time he presented himself to the old officer of the day who signed the guard book and turned it over to accused. Accused, in proper dress and side arms reported, informally perhaps, to the Adjutant whom he met on the s t airway near his office and who accepted accused's report and informed him that there wens no special instructions. Accused thereafter informed several officers including headquarters chief of staff that he was the Officer of the Day. Accused was found drunk after A*00 p.m. the time of commencement of his tour of duty. He had, in fact at that time assumed the duties and functions of Officer of the Day (Winthrop's Military Law & Precedents - Reprint -p.61A, footnote 57).

(c)	AR- 600-20, Changes No. 5, dated May 3, 19A3, provides that "Chiefs of supply and administration services or officers on duty in the offices of such chiefs, officers of any of the services **** though eligible to command, according to his rank, will not assume command of troops except those of his service or bureau or that in which he is on duty, unless put on duty under orders which specifically so direct, by ^competent authority, but any staff officer, by virtue of his commission, may command ».H enlisted men like other commissioned officers." (Underscoring supplied). Accused although a Quartermaster officer was placed on the duty roster for duly on 10 October 19A3 by competent authority. He manifestly became eligible for duty as Officer of the Day by virtue of the exception contained in the Regulation itself. His contention in this respect is without merit.

6.	’ The charge sheet shows the accused to be A3 years 6 months old.

He enlisted for World War service 23 April 1919 and was honorably discharged 22 April 1922. He entered active duty in the present conflict on 30 June 19A2.

7.	A recommendation for clemency dated 25 October 19A3 asking that execution of the sentence of dismissal be suspended in view of accused*s long record of honorable service and excellence of previous ratings, signed by all the members of the trial court, is attached to the record of trial.

8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affooting, the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. Am sentence of dismissal is mandatory upon the conviction of an officer 9f being drunk on duty in time of war in violation of Artj

Judge Advocate Advocate

______________ Judge Advocate

CONFIDENTIAL
(238)

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

W, Branch Office of TJAG., with ETOUSA. 3 0 NOV ^9 A3	TO: Commanding

General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.

1.	In the case of Captain FRANKLIN. A. McCARTNEI (0-310406), General Depot G-10, (Quartermaster Corps), Northern Ireland Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50k you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.

2,	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 970. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 970).

/ ;

I.	C. McNEH.

I Brigadier General, United States Army, .J/, . Assistant Judge Advocate General. ^

(Sentence ordered executed. GCMD 26, ETO, 3 Bee. 1943)
#(239)

Branch Office of The Juige Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OP REVIEW ETO 971

UNITED STATES )

)

v.	)

)

Private First Class	CHARLES	S.	)

BURNETT (35487587),	1253rd	)

Military Police Company (Avn). )

'	)

2 7 NOV 1943

VIII AIR FCRCE COMPOSITE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 231, 20 October 1943. Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specifications

CHARGE: Violation of the 86th Article of War.

Specifications In that Private First Class

Charles S. Burnett, 1253rd Military Police Co., (Avn), VIII Air Force Composite Command being on guard and posted as sentinel, at Army Air Force Station AAF-236, APO 639, on or about September 17, 1943, was found sleeping upon his post.

3.	The only question requiring consideration is the propriety of the designation of a Federal reformatory as the place of confinement. Paragraph 90b of the Manual for Courts-Martial provides:

"Subject to such instructions as may be issued from time to time by the War Department, the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kans., or one of its branches, or a military post, station, or camp, will be designated as the place of confinement in cases where a penitentiary is not designated."

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

War Department letter dated February 26, 1941 (AG 253 (2-6-41)/, subjects "Instructions to reviewing authorities regarding the designation of institutions for military prisoners to be confined in a Federal penal or correctional Institution", authorises confinement in a reformatory only when confinement in a penitentiary is authorized by law (CM 220093> Unckel: CM 228072. Wallace).

4.	Confinement in a penitentiary is not authorized in this case for the reason that the offense of which accused was found guilty is not recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than one year by any statute of the United States of general application within the continental United States or by the law cf the District of Columbia. See Article of War 42.

5.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review holds the record of trial legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as,involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for five years in a place other than a penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correctional institution.

_Judg3 Advocate



— Judge Advocate



Judge Advocate

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

General, VIII Air Force Composite Command, AAF Station 231, APO 639,

U.S. Army.

1.	In the ease of Private First Class CHARLES S. BURNETT (35487537), 1253rd Military Police Company (Avn), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for five years in a place other than a penitentiary, a Federal reformatory or correctional institution, which holding is hereby approved. Upon designation of a place of confinement other than a penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correctional institution, you will have authority to order the execution of the sentence.

2.	The record indicates that accused has an excellent character and over a year of satisfactory service as a trained soldier. He stands convicted of a purely military offense. He definitely appears to have salvage value and under announced policies the dishonorable discharge should be suspended and Disciplinary Training Center No. 2912 designated as the place of confinement thus allowing him the opportunity to demonstrate his right to another chance to serve his country. When action is taken suspending the execution of the dishonorable discharge, the GCMO should be published.

3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the record of trial together with this holding and indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 971. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 971).

Brigadier General, United States Army Assistant Judge Advocate General.

1 Incl:

Record of trial.

- 1

CONFIPENTIM

#(243)

CONFIDENTIAL

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 972

UNITED STATES )

)

v.	)

)

Private First Class ANDREW S. ) PETROVICH (12163914), 35th ) Station Complement Squadron, ' ) VIII Air Force Composite	)

Command,	)

)

27 NOV 1943

VIII AIR FORCE COMPOSITE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Army Air Force Station 231, APO 639,

22 October 1943* Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five, years. United States Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:

CHARGE:	Violation	of the 86th Article of War.

Specification:	In	that Pfc. Andrew S. Petrovich,

35th Station Complement Squadron, VIII Air Force Composite Command AAF Sta. 238, APO 639, being on guard and posted as a sentinel, at AAF Sta, 238 APO 639, on or about 23 September 1943, was found sleeping upon his post,

3.	The only question requiring consideration is the propriety of the designation of a Federal reformatory as the place of confinement. Paragraph 90b of the Manual for Courts-Martial provides:

"Subject to such instructions as may be issued from time to time by the War Department, the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kans., or one of its b ranches, or a military post, station, or camp, will be designated as the place of confinement in cases where a penitentiary is not designated."

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(244)

War Department letter dated February 26, 1941 (AG 253 (2-6-41) E), subject: "Instructions to reviewing authorities regarding the designation of institutions for military prisoners to be confined in a Federal penal or correctional institution", authorizes confinement in a reformatory only when confinement in a penitentiary is authorized by law (CM 220093, Unckel;

CM 228072, Wallace).

4.	Confinement in a penitentiary is not authorized in this case' for the reason that the offense of which accused Was found guilty is not recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by i^enitentiary confinement for more then one year by any statute of the United States of general application within the continental United States or by the law of the District of Columbia. See Article of War 42.

5.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review holds the record of trial legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for five years in a place other than a "penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correctional institution.

- 2 -

CONFIDENTS
CONFIDENTIAL

(245)

•	1st	Ind.

HD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 2 7 ^ ^43	TO; Commanding

General, VIII Air Force Composite Command, AAF Station 231, APO 639,

U.S. Army.

■	1. In the case of Private First Class ANDREW S. PETROVICH (121639U),

35th Station Complement Squadron, VIII Air Force Composite Command, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for five' years in a place other than a penitentiary, a Federal reformatory or correctional institution, which holding is hereby approved. Upon designation of a place of confinement other than a penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correctional institution, you will have authority to order the execution of the sentence.

2.	The record indicates that accused has an excellent character and a year of satisfactory service as a trained soldier. He stands convicted of a purely military offense. He definitely has salvage value and under announced policies the dishonorable discharge should be suspended and Disciplinary Training Center No. 2912 designated as the place of confinement thus allowing him the opportunity to demonstrate his right to another chance to serve his country. When action is taken suspending the execution of the dishonorable discharge, the GCNO should be published.

3.	When copies of the published order are.forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the record of trial together with this holding and indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 972. For convenience of reference please -place that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 972).

Brigadier General, United States Army, , Assistant Judge Advocate General.

1 Indi

Record of trial.

CONFIDENTIAL

#(247)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 973

UNITED STATES )

)

v.	)

)

Private DONALD H. McFALL	)

(32474205), Headquarters and	)

Headquarters Squadron, 403rd	)

Air Depot,	)

)

29K0V 1943

VIII AIR FORCE COMPOSITE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Army Air Force Station 231, APO 639,

21 October 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. United States Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:

CHARGE:	Violation	of the 86th Article of War,

Specification:	In	that Private Donald H. McFall,

Hq. & Hq, Sq., 403rd Air Depot, being on guard and posted as a sentinel, at AAF Station 597, APO 636, on or about 2235 hours 6 October 1943, was found sleeping upon his post.

3.	The only question requiring consideration is the propriety of the designation of a Federal reformatory as the place of confinement. Paragraph 90b of the Manual for Courts-Martial provides:

t"Subject to such instructions as may be issued from time to time by the War Department, the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kans., or one of its branches, or a military post, station, or camp, will'be designated as the place of confinement in cases where a penitentiary is not designated."

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(248)

CONFIDENTIAL

War Department letter dated February 26, 1941 (AG 253 (2-6-41) E), subject*

11 Instructions to reviewing authorities regarding the d e signation of institutions for military prisoners to be confined in,a>Federal penal or correctional institution”, authorizes confinement in a reformatory only when confinement in a penitentiary is authorized by law (CM 220093, Unckel: CM 228072, Wallace).

4.	Confinement in a penitentiary is not authorized in this*case for the reason that no offense of which aocused wasfound guilty is recognized as an offense of a civil nature and so punishable by penitentiary confinement for more than-one year by any statute of the United States of general application within the continental United States or by the law of the District of Columbia, See Article of War 42,

5,	For the'reasons stated, the Board of Review holds the record of trial legally sufficient to support only so much Of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for five years in a place other than a‘penitentiary', Federal reformatory or correctional institution,' :

_ Judge Advocate

Judge Advocate

Judge Advocate

2	—

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(249)

i	1st	Ind.

WD, Branch Office TJAG.,.with ETOUSA. 2 9 NOV 1943	TO:	Commanding

General, VIII Air Force Composite Command, AAF Station 231, APO 639,

U.S. Army,

1.	In the case of Private DONALD H. McFALL (324-74205), Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 4-03rd Air Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for five years in a place other than a penitentiary, a Federal reformatory or correctional institution, which holding is hereby approved. Upon designation of a place of confinement other than a penitentiary, Federal reformatory or correction institution, you will have authority to order the execution of the sentence.

2.	The record indicates that accused has over a year of satisfactory service as a trained soldier. He stands convicted of a purely military offense. He definitely appears to have salvage value and under announced policies the dishonorable discharge should be suspended and Disciplinary Training Center No. 2912 designated a.3 the place of confinement thus allowing Mm the opportunity to demonstrate his right to another chance to serve his country. When action is taken suspending the execution of the dishonorable discharge, the GCMO should be published.

•3. When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the record of trial together with this holding and indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 973* For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 973).

• /

Incl:

Record of trial.

„ V //E. C. McNEIL,

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

CONFIDENTIAL
k
#(251)

CONFIDENTIAL

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW

ETO 991

UNITED STATES	)

)

v.	)

)

Private ANTHONY J. GUGLIOTTA	)

(3220323U) and Private THOMAS M.	)

HARRINGTON (20214:628), both of	)

Troop ”Cn,' 102nd Cavalry (Mecz).	)

)

)

1 0 DEC 1943

v CORPS

Trial by G«C*M., convened at Norton Manor Camp, (England), 2 November 19U3-Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor, Gugliotta for two years and six months at the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekraan, New York, and Harrington for four years at The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAM BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldiers named above has been examined by the B0ard of Review.

2.	Accused were tried upon the following charges and specifications:

GUGLIOTTA

CHARGE:	Violation	of the 96 Article of War.

Specification 1:	In that Private Anthony J. Gugliotta,

Troop C, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz), did, at West Burton,

England, on or about 13 September 19^3, attempt to commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature attempting to have ' carnal connection in the mouth of a human being,

to wit:	one Ernest Victor Frank Gray of Dunns Lane, Sillon,

Gillingham, England.

Specification 2:	In that Private Anthony J. Gugliotta,

Troop C, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz), did, at West Burton,

England, on or about 13 September 19U3, willfully, wrongfully, .and unlawfully, damage a bicycle, the property of Ernest Victor Frank Gray of Dunns Lane,

Sillon, Gillingham, England, in the amount of about

56.00.

CONFIDENTIAL
HARRINGTON

CONFIDENTIAL

CHARGE I: Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification:	In	that Private Thomas M. Harrington,

Troop C, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz),.did, at ’West Burton, England, on or about 13 September 19k3> commit the crime of sodomy, by feloniously and against the order of nature having carnal connection in the mouth of a human being, to wit:	one Ernest Victor Frank Gray of

Dunns Lane, Sillon, Gillingham, England.

CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specification:	In	that Private Thomas M. Harrington,

Troop C, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz), did, at West Burton,

England, on or about 13 September 19k3> willfully, wrongfully, and unlawfully damage a bicycle, the property of Ernest Victor Frank Gray of Dunns Lane,

Sillon, Gillingham, England, in the amount of $L,00.

Each accused was separately charged but their trials were consolidated. Each pleaded not guilty to, anQ^wras found guilty of their respective charges and specifications. No previous convictions were introduced against Gugliotta. One previous conviction for absence without leave was introduced against Harrington. Each accused was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct, Gugliotta for two years and six months and Harrington for four years. The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York as the place of confinement for Gugliotta, and the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement for Harrington, and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War £o|.

3.	The prosecution’s evidence was substantially as follows:

Ernest Victor Frank Gray, a farm laborer about 18 years old (R12) of Dunns Lane, Sillon, Gillingham, Dorset, at about 10:30 on the night of 13 September 19h3, was riding his sister’s bicycle, and at Bourton Cross Road’s in the village of Bourton, was accosted by the two accused who inquired the way to Wincanton. Upon being given the directions, they asked Gray to "Come up the road with us." (R9-10). After going a way with them, they said it was not Wincanton "but the camp at Cucklington they were going to." They then asked if Gray "knew of any women or WAAFs about" and Gray replied in the negative. As they went down the road past a hayrick, they asked Gray to "Come out behind the hayrick with us." He refused but they "kept on about it." Harrington told Gugliotta to take Gray’s bicycle, which he did without protest from Gray who "didn’t want to make a row." Gugliotta was riding the bicycle as Constable Charles Standfield came along on his bicycle and told Gugliotta to turn his lights on, at which Gugliotta got off and walked. Gray said he didn’t want to go any farther but accused insisted that he continue, and as they got near to

- 2 - ( )

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(253)

camp they told him, "You better come over here -with us." Gray locked his bicycle on the gate and went over to the field as he "didn't want to refuse." Harrington, according to Gray's version of the incident:

"took out his penis and told me to suck it."

"I did not suck it long. Then he told me to play with it with my hands which I did until some stuff came out. After that he put his penis away. He told me to take my trousers down before playing with his penis. After the stuff came out, he went back for the other one. Vfhen the other one came, he wanted me to do it. I refused.

He said 'Do you want me to do you in.' I heard someone' coming down the road. I ■ started calling for help and running away.

I never saw any more of them. I went straight to Police Officer Standfield's house and told him what had happened. He put on his boots and came down the read with me. When we got there, the accused had gone. When we got to the bike, the two tires were slashed. The tires were cut and the front lamp gone." (RIO).

After Gray had finished with-Harrington, both accused told Gray to take Gugliotta's penis in his hand. Gray started to play with Gugliotta's penis, but refused to put it in his mouth (RIG-12). He identified both accused at Cucklington Camp the following day (Rll).	. .

Constable Charles Standfield, No, 12 Bourton, Dorset, first saw the two accused on the main road at Bourton, Dorset, about 10:L0 p.m. on 13 September. One was riding a bicycle without lights and one was walking with Gray. It was fairly light. Standfield slowly rode up on his bicycle, spoke to the man riding with no lights on his bicycle, who dismounted and apologized and Standfield rode away; He "couldn't definitely identify than as these (the accused) two men" (R13). ' Standfield had known Gray for years. Later that evening at 11:10 p.m. he opened his door in response to loud knocking and saw Gray "in a very distressed condition", who told him "I have been assaulted by two American soldiers. My bicycle is along the road and I am afraid to go and fetch it. Come with me." Standfield dressed, went to the gateway of a farm field owned by a Mr. Puddy, and saw a locked bicycle chained to the gate. Both tires were slashed. He searched several fields for the soldiers but found no trace of them except the marks where the dew on the grass had been disturbed (RlL). The next day Gray was taken to the camp at Cucklington in company with Constables Standfield and King, arriving about noon. They went to where the men were having their mid-day meal and Gray identified both accused. • Each accused made and signed the statement "I know nothing about it" after Standfield had "charged them with committing an offense of gross indecency and cautioned them". These statements were received in evidence as EX. "A", the defense stating there was no objection thereto (RlU).

- 3 -

’CONFIDENTIAL
C0NFMT1M

(254)

Constable Thomas King, Dorset, identified both accused as the men picked out by Gray at the time the men were coming to their meal at the camp at Cucklington (R15-16-).

Herrick Higson, Agent, Criminal Investigation Division, APO £11, identified Harrington who made a statement to him on 21* September 19k2>, after Higson had duly warned him of his rights in regard to making such a statement. It was received in evidence as Ex, "B", read to the court (R17) and is as follows:

"On 13 September 19U3, I wan on official pass, I left my camp at about 1900 hours with Gugliotta of my organization, we were going to visit ZEALE.

The first villiage we stopped in was a small place just out of camp on the way to ZEALE, we were going to stop in a pub, "The Rising Sun", but we didn't. We asked some people the way to ZFAT.E and they • told us. We then walked to ZEALE, arriving there about 20l*5 hours. We went into the "Bell and Crown"

' pub. We were .the only American soldiers in the pub with Breeches and Boots on, there were other American soldiers there but they had slacks. While we were in this pub we met 3 WAAFS. We all had about 1* beers a piece, then we left with the WAAFS sometime before closing time. We were in the pub for about an hour. We walked mthe,WAAFS down to their camp, when we got to tne/camp we talked to the girls for about 10 minutes. We left the WAAFS and started walking towards camp.

At about 22l£ hours, after we have left the WAAFS, while walking back to our camp, we met a fellow, an English civilian, coming towards us on a bicycle. As he was riding past us we yelled a.t him, "Is this the way back .to camp."

He turned his bicycle around and came up to' us.

We were walking along -and he was riding his bicycle beside us. We asked him where all the women were in town. He told us there were not any women in town,- and then he asked us, what we wanted women for. When he asked us this I had a good idea he was "Queer". He got off his bicycle and started walking along with us. I knudged GUGLIOTTA and he took a ride on the kid's bicycle. I asked the kid if he ever 'got down ta it', he replied, 'either way'. I asked him what he meant and he said he didn't mind which way he took it. About this time a police officer stopped GUGLIOTTA riding a bicycle because it didn't have the lights on. GUGLIOTTA then started walking with us.
CONFIDENTIAL

(255)

The kid suggested he knew a place where we could be off the road. He locked his bicycle on a gate post. I told. GUGLIOTTA to stay at the gate, while I wenfyOSlto the field with the kid. We got about 10 or 15 yards into the field when he dropped his pants and turned around, back to me. I asked him what he wanted, and he said 'Go ahead*, I replied, 'No, you'll have to go down on it'. I didn't have to ask him the second time, he just grabbed hold of my penis and started sucking on it. I didn't shoot in his .mouth but pulled back from him and 'Come' on the ground. I said I would send GUGLIOTTA down to him. I started to walk away and when I looked back, I saw the kid masterbating.

I went back to the gate where GUGLIOTTA was and told him the kid might want you. to "Brown" him.

I was about 5 yards away when GUGLIOTTA got to the kid, GUGLIOTTA, had his penis out, I don't know whether the kid started to "Blow" him or not. The kid got scared and started to yell,, running up to the road. The kid ran past me and I told him to be quiet but he kept on running, it looked like the kid was throwing a fit.

GUGLIOTTA and I went up oh the road and were iaughing about it. When we got on the road we saw a British Sailor. The sailor wanted to know what the yelling was about, we told him that it was one of the fellows of our unit who didn't want to go back to camp. The sailor went away.

We saw the kid's bicycle so we went up to it,

GUGLIOTTA cut the front tire and I cut the rear.

GUGLIOTTA then threw the' front light away. We went back to camp arriving there at about 2330 hours.

During the time we were with the kid, he seemed to want to 'Blow' us, and it wasn't necessary to use any force on him. The kid appeared to be a real 'Queer', and liked it.

I have read the foregoing statement on 3- pages and it is true. "

SIGNED: THOMAS M. HARRINGTON.

I have read my statement of 3 ■ pages and it is true.

SIGNED:________________

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 2ii of September 19h3. EDWARD EDGERTON.

Summary Court. (Ex.B).

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(256) _

Charles J. Miller, Agent, Criminal Investigation Division Detachment, Headquarters, SBS, APO $19, identified .both accused (R17) and also identified a statement given him by GUGLIOTTA after he had been ■warned of his rights, which statement was also admitted in evidence, with consent of defense, as Ex. "C" (Rl8). The statement was read to the court and was in part as follows:

After walking a short ways down the road we met a boy riding a bicycle towards us.

We asked him if this was the right way back to camp. He stopped. We asked him ■ where all the girls were in this town. He said there were no girls here, and what did we want with girls. We walked away and he turned and walked with us. Diring the walk we hinted around about him giving us a blew job and he said *he didn't mind.' He also told us he knew a good plaice. He took us down to the field chained his bicycle to the fence and then Harrington^and the ’fellow went over the fence and into the field. They stayed there about $ or 10 minutes then Harrington came back and I went into the field, Harrington followed me. ' When I got in the field I asked the fellow for a 'blow job' and he said 'no'.

At the time I saw him, he had his pants up. I then took the fellow by. the shoulder and said,

•Go ahead.' He then pulled away started to scream and then run.

We ran the other way, jumped over the fence and at this time saw a sailor. We walked down the road a short ways then walked back to the bicycle and I cut the front tire and Harrington cut the rear tire, I then grabbed the front light and threw it away,	•

We then walked back to camp and got there, about'11:30, P.M.

During the whole time we were with the fellow we did not force him in any way and he was perfectly willing to 'suck us off' in fact he told us he didn't mind:	He	is	also	the	one	that

picked the pltce for us to go. While up in the field I was only with him about' two minutes.

I have had the above statement read to me and it is true.»

WITNESS:

PVT. ROLAND. HELL. •

PRISON CLERK. .

SIGNED: ANTHONY u. GUGLIOTTA.

(EX.C).

- 6 - .

CONFIDENTIAL
iJNFIDENTIAL

(257)

U. No -witnesses or evidence were produced on behalf of accused who, after having their rights to make a statement in court fully explained to them, elected to remain silent.

5.	"Sodomy	consists	of	sexual connection

with any brute animal, or in sexual connection, by rectum or by mouth, by a man with a human being. Penetration alone is sufficient Proof:- That the accused had sexual connection with a certain brute animal or had sexual connection by rectum or by mouth with a certain human being, as alleged in the	,

specification " (MCM 1928, par.lL9k,

. p.177).

That Harrington actually did commit sodomy as charged is shown by his own admission as well as by the testimony of Gray. Carnal knowledge per os is a crime under the 93rd Article of War (CM ETO 339, Gage}

CM ETO 9k$, Garrison).

An attempt to commit a crime is an act done with intent to commit that particular crime, and forming a part of a series of acts which will apparently, if not interrupted by circumstances independent of the doer's will, result in its actual commission. (Clark.) (MCM 1928, par.132,p.190).

Gugliotta went into the field with Gray, took him by the shoulder and said, "Go ahead." Gray took Gugliotta*s penis in his hand but refused to put it in his mouth even when Gugliotta threatened to "do him in". Only Gray's refusal to submit to Gugliotta's wishes and his subsequent flight from the scene, prevented the actual crime of sodomy from being committed. The attempt to commit the crime of sodomy by Gugliotta is clearly shown by his own admission as well as by Gray's testimony.

Each accused admitted slashing a tire on the bicycle and Gugliotta admitted throwing away the front light. The actual monetary damage to the bicycle is not proved but the court is legally justified in assuming frcm the evidence that the damage was in some substantial amount less than $20.00.

6.	The maximum penalty prescribed by the Table of Maximum Punishments 1928 Manual for Courts-Martial for the offense of sodomy is dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for five years. "•###* An attempt which is not separately listed in the Table of Maximum Punishments is subject only to the same limit of punishment as is the offense attempted, if the latter is listed." (Par.U02(l), Dig.Ops.JAG. February 19U3). An attempt to commit sodomy is therefore punishable as if the crime had been committed.

As Harrington is less than 31 years old with a sentence of not more than ten years, confinement in a Federal correctional institution or

- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(258)

reformatory is authorized (Sec.II, par»6g, Cir«72. Hq,. ETOUSA,

9 September 191*3 j War Department Circular No.291, 10 November 19l*3, sec,V,3a).

Penitentiary confinement is not authorized under AW 1*2 for an attempt to commit sodomy (1912-191*0 Dig.Ops.JAG. Par*399(2),p.2l*6). Confinement as designated is authorized.

7.	The charge sheet shows:

Gugliotta is 23 years of age. ■ He was inducted into active military service 20 January 191*2 and assigned to 102nd Cavalry (Mecz), 30 March 191*2.	t

Harrington is 21* years of age, was inducted into active military service 6 January 191*1, 102nd Cavalry (H-Mecz): redesignated 6 April 19l*2, 102nd Cavalry (Mecz).

Neither accused had any prior service.	'

8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the persons and the offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of the accused were committed during the trial. The -Board of Review is' of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentences.

- 8 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(259)

TO. Branch Office of TJAG with ETOUSA. ^ 0 DEC 1943 To2 Commanding General, V Corps, ETOUSA., APO 30$, U.8.. Army.

1.	In the case of Private ANTHONY J. GUGLIOTTA (3220323U) and of Private THOMAS M. HARRINGTON (2021^628), both of Troop C,

I02nd Cavaliy (Mecz), attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentences, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War $0you now have authority to order the execution of the sentences.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this

office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 991. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets, at the end of the orderi (ETO 591).	'1

4. C.

McNEIL,

.(Brigadier General, united States ’’ '(Assistant Judge A^vocate.Generali

CONFIDENTIAL
f
#(261)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 992

UNITED STATES	)	-

)

v.	)

)

Private DUNCAN (Mill) FORTENBERRY ' ) (3A623669), Headquarters and	)

Headquarters Squadron, 44th Bom-	)

bardment Wing, 1st Fighter	)

Division (Prov.), VIII Air	)

Support Command.	)

10 DEC 1943

EIGHTH AIR FORCE.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at USAAF Station No. 466, APO 638, 4 November 1943. Sentence:	Dishonorable

discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. United States Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:

CHARGE I:	Violation	of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification 1:	In	that	Private	Duncan	(NMI)

Fortenberry, Kq & Hq Sq. 44-th Bomb Wing (H),

1st Fighter Division (Prov), VIII Air Support Command, did, at Grazeley Green,

• Burghfield, Berkshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943, with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon Alexander Ferguson, by stabbing him in the right shoulder, with a dangerous weapon to wit, a knife.

Specification 2:	In	that	Private	Duncan	(NUl)

Fortenberry, Hq & Hq Sq, 44th Bomb Wing (H),

1st Fighter Division (Prov), VIII Air Support Command, did, at Grazeley Green,

Burghfield, Berkshire, England, on or about 1 October 1943, with intent to do him bodily harm, commit an assault upon George Frederick James Stubbington by stabbing him in the back with a dangerous weapon, to wit, a knife.

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

CHARGE II; Violation of the 96th Article of War.

Specification:	In that Private Duncan (Ml) ,

Fortenberry, Hq & Hq Sq, 44th Bomb Wing (H),

1st Fighter division (Prov), VIII Air Support Conmiand, did, at Grazeley Green,

Burghfleld, Berks, England, on or about 1 October 1943, unlawfully carry a concealed weapon, viz: a knife with a three and’one-half inch blade, during his off duty hours. and among the.civilian population, contrary, to Section .IV, Circular No 76, Hq ETOUSA,

' 18 Sept 1943.

He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of all charges and specifications. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to. become due, and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for a period of five years. Ihe reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War $0^-.

3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.

4.	The charge sheet shows accused is 22 years of age with less than

ten months service, ' Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of assault with intent to do bodily .harm with a dangerous wpapon (35 Stat. 1143; IS USC., sec.455).	As accused is less than 31 years of

age and the approved sentence is less than ten years, the designation of the Federal.Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement is* correct (Vffi, Cir.291, 10 November 1943, sec.V,3a).

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
1st Ind

(263)

WD, Branch. Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 10 OEC 1943	TO:	Commanding

General, Eighth Air Force, APO 633, U.S. Army.

1.	In the case of Private DUNCAN (NMI) FGRTENBERKI (34623669), Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 44th Bombardment Wing, 1st Fighter Division (Prov.), VIII Air Support Command, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial Is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, v/hich holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50$ you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. iThe file number of the record in this office is ETO 992. For convenience 'of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 992).

V 4. C. McNEIL,

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

CONFIDENTIAL
#(265)
Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General

with the European Theater of Operations A?0 871

board or ana no 99ft

3 0 DEC 1943

OIZTIO	8	TATIS

Scant smaux bmbubx	)

(6985599)* Berrios Battury,	)

50th field Artillery Battalion, )

I

5TH mTANTBI cm SICK

Trial by Q.C.M.* aonvenad at Tldeorth Garrison, England,

4 Ootober 1943* Santeneei Die-honorable discharge, suspended* total forfaltttfee end nonflw—it at hard labor for in yaars. 2912th Disciplinary Training Center* Shepton Ballet, Soanrsst, England.

lOLDin by the BOARD OP ETfJUa RITES, TAB HEKSCHOTEH and SAJUE3T, Judge Advocates

1.	The reoord of trial in the ease of the soldier naned above has ben eaoalned in the Branoh Of floe of The Judge Advocate General vlth the European Theater of Operations and there found legally Insrrfflelnt te support the findings and senteaM in port. Tbs reoord has no*.bean embed by the Board of Berlee which samite this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advooate General la ohargs of said Branoh Office.

2,	Aeousad was tried upon the fallowing dniys end spedfloatioosi

CHAhOt It Tloiatlon of the 93rd Article of «ur.

Speeifloatlont In that Sergeant Sherman Burkhart, Sarrloa Battery, fiftieth field Artillery Battalion, did, at or near Andover, Honpehlre, England, on or about 30 August 1943, vlth intent to eoanlt a felony* vis, rape, oomdt an assault and battery upon B. M. Itaggui, (resale, human being) by ad11fully and falonloualy attempting to have sexual intercourse mth bar forcibly and against bar sill.

CRAKE Hi Tlolatlen of ths 94th Artlolo of War.

Specif ioatleni * In that Sergeant Shaman Burkhart* rerrio* Battery, Fiftieth Field artillery Battalion, did* at TiArorth Barracks, failtahlre, England, on or abort 30 August 1943, knowingly and willfully nisapprojrlate and apply to his own use and benefit one no tar vehicle of the value la expose of $50.00, property of ths Qnited States, furnished and Intended for ths military aorrloe thereof.

•1-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

m jIt 111 Mi guilty teudiu found guilty of tte atergaa and up—ifioatlewo. Be arldno* of prevleu* •corloUooo waa lntrofaeod.

Bt aanteaood to bo 4UtowiMy diaohargsd tba wrrlo*, to forfeit oil pop and illwnam doe or to beooae due and to be oonflnad at bard loter at mah plaoo oo tbo rostering authority way direst tor ton yoerw. The reviewing authority approved tbo oeotonao bet suspended tbo oaoerrtlm of tbe dlchsnormblo dtooterge until tbo prisoner's nOeooo tron uoofino-aent end deal po tel 2912th Disatplimry Training Contar, Stepten ballot, Soooaroot, England, oo tbo pleoo of awfba—1»	•

Tbo remit of tbo idol ana pramlgatod la Seconal Court-Martial OrdaruBo. SO, Boadffmrtem 9th lafentry Dt-rUdo*, APO 5 dated 15 ter enter 1943* >

J. for tbe preoeeurtlee, Servant affinor (Junior grade) tetert L flu—erfelt, of eoaaeod'a battalion, teoUfled that aoeusod on 29 August 190 done o party of offleoro, lnoludlng tho eUaeoe, e* oo outwanbilo trip firaa tidnortb to Bath and re Ur*. Tbe party re tamed to Tidvorth at Olid hours. Aeoueod oao 1* 0J).'o with fcLauoo, eaarlni proper '"■'IT4* of ft*do and a braided garrlaca oap (M~5) •

riret Lieutenant Iaorerne V. Ioong tootlfiod tte^bo^eaejbeajpormiy

trip using a ooooaaad oar oo 29 insist 1943. Aoouoad oao tte driver.

Tbo trip oao ooagOoted at Tldocrth about 11«45 F>>> Bo instrusted tbo oooeood to taka tbo anooanil oar to tba wtor park. Bo did not gnat yoradoole* to take it olooobora. Tbo oar oaa oerth about 41200 ar 41300. Bltaaoo aoooopllehad the trip tlafeet ooaotloo after tbo Journey wee over (JT7-9). Bewailed by tbo oourt, ha tootlfiod that thoro bad boon ordora that a vehiale should not lesra onp without a trip tinted (143) • C* a subsequent daplloato trip aada for teat pnrpoaeo to Bath and rates* over tte ooae rout* tba ear's speodooetar road appnudoatoly 97 adloo.

Tte trip tlokot (ProsJEx.8) ahowo total aliases of 122 (B47). (Tbo rooerd contains no or! donee of tte dlrtanoo tetoeoa Andover and Tldoorth, bat aooarding to the Too Kilo Map of Great Britain, Military lull tie*, that dlotaaoo la about 10-12 alloo, o proper subject of judlolal notloo.)

LU.C.V. Eileen C. Uu^cen, Ocean's Auxiliary air Fora*, tootlfiod that ate left Andover railway ate tic* about too slants# peat 12*00 a* tba ai£it of 29-39)August 1943, for Andover Cuap otatlo*. fchile panose ortlng along tte road a* "Amy transport* a topped and ate spooled tba offer of a "lift." Tte vehlala, a alas larger than a Jeep, had aa da pro bat had a oover over tbs top (HlO-ll). Sha wao driven to o point about two hundred yards beyond Greggs' Corasr who* tba driver Infbrwad ter bo would not tab* ter farther. Continuing, tte ndLtnoa* tootlfiod*

■I mat to got out aad he pt held ef os and . want to klao a*. 1 was flnhborgiated. Z ' Jwat Oald l thought It was a ted ate# and X teat to got oat sad ho would**! lot no.

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(267)

**« be aanagad to get out of Ms driving mi sod stopped as fro* getting out of tbs osar. And fas aade son* muka to ns and I wsoat to raise ay roios sad than bs struok ay fieoe. And than 1 saowiged to kick st fain sod as I kicked at hla bs gpt out of tbs transport, and oeannhile I lost ay bat and I startsd earaaoing getting hywterioal.

I aanagad to grt out of tbs transport and bs want around to tbs front of tbs ear, and I got s bold of my ones and I grabbed for ay fast sad it happened to fas his bat I got it sad kept it |ust tbs seas* 1 ass sageasing neanahlle and I nctLoed there sara tarohee in the distance, and be got back into tbs driver's seat end drove the transport toeards * Red Poet Rldgt) that is at tbe and of tbs seep. And in tbs noantias tbe R.k.'i. Polios sane us to so.- (Ell-12).

8be identified a oap fay the Maher B-5559, as the sea belonging to the driver of the vehicle end it eas received in erldanoe as Pros.Ex.A (R12). On sarues evnrilmtion, she testified that whan the driver passed in front ef the headlights, which sore quite bright, he appeared to be without e hat (113). On —aalnatlos fay tbe eourt, she stated*

"As ha want to kiss as I objected very nueh. 1 still wanted to gat out of tha ear. Ha got in front of as. Ha got out of tbe aaat and barred tbe way for m to got out of tha

jmk

fi*Li	Utt*

£XJS«9tt&£Jte

with..Ma	itruok nr foot.

- m	vaia)	be	1st so aad 1

W&BMS&. MtfLA*. kilt Jfeifl teJSSl ftt*. 1i Tfo«a i. jg?t ,<n\ og.lfea tor*»

(Oader-souring supplied).

£394

Shs struggled with him because be was bolding her. Be struok her s savers hiss in tha faas with his fist, which shs thought definitely sea a da liberate one; its nark reaainad ffar about a saek. Further interrogation fay tbe eourt praaaedsd ae follows*

%.‘M Kill you tall ns bow ha was holding you.

Vfaat part of tha body ha had his hold)

A* It ay throat,sir, H» «ade reaarke toths

Ha m

->■

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

<4« Did h* put hi* hand on any part af your bod/J

A. TtU JasJLftl JtoaJLilJLJBMI 3aj1m

Thai is Aen 1 nt. raged to klek at hi

(IU.6) (Undar-scoring Supplied).

* * * * *

4. pifl	Itei-te.	fvwffl&rw&gi

A* Is*. (£16) (Uiuler scoring supplied).

Be hi wearing * ooat, but ah* did not noties hi* raak (K16). QH reurnsa ariiiilnatlqa, ah* would not mix h* was without * hat (X18)* On further examination by the court aba testified*

%• •** ggijBEijaasfaii .y*v iw jMtejjaa

i.

4.

a. io, 1 tad no dwl*^ l_hftd bq ftjefrt at all

*hat hi#. latonUcM were, y- Saa. tbAt belief bywa entirely vamJ&m

qaasal Jfe&i m Sauaa ttirt at aea BassQiaz flan

A. Weil, by hi* attitude. Hr his whole attltad*. v (R18) (Underscoring supplied) .

Ml** IXiggan dsslarsd she 1* fir* feet, firs and one-half lashes tall and weigh* nine stone, and that a stone is fourteen pounds (R19). The witness was recalled later in the trial as a witness far the court end indicated that the driver of the vehicle was wearing — olive dmb bln MW and not a field jacket. She did not resaober Aether or not he had chevrons on it (£19).

Corporal a. H. Evans, R.AJ’. Station Pellc*, Andover, testified that he knew aeeosed and had identified hie at Tidrorth at age idsntifl-sation parade (R38). About 12i23 an the naming of 30 August the witness end other 1UA.F. parsonnsl were on patrol on the sain xsap need end stopped a vehiele. Aooosed said a m«aaF* was in trouble m tep of the read and that ha would take thsa back there. Be turned around In the dispersal field bat did not step and went as fast as b* ooold wp tbs reed. This was near the sub-guard rooe on the snap road which goes through Andover to Awpert and Thruxtcn. Bitnesa saw accused about 500 parts trzm the sain Tidworth road. The patrol stopped the oar and sheas torch** (flash-lights) on It. Aooused was leaning over tbs wheel of the vehiele, which the witness thought was a Dodge truck, opes with a top* Me had three stripes and a *T" on his am, was wearing a field jacket and had nothing on hie head. (B20,22). glee Duggan, who sac later brought 1st* the Mab>guard seen, had a big burp on her head. She acted vary wpset, as sridenosd by crying (R2>26).

Corporal Lewis Aferchaas, sa.F. Statin* Police, Andover, testified that about 12*20 — the Bornli« of 30 Aegast, he was la charts ef the petrel "leading" fra* the eeln gucxdroa* to the sah-pnxd re—.

That .AH pflrww ni

or not?

CONFIDENTIAL
• CONFIDENTIAL

(269)

He wee with Corporal* £vuns and Sherlock and. heard people sho rting "•top hie* and they flashed their torches on the oar vhiah stopped at the dispersal point, about 153-2jo /ards froa Greggs' Garner, which is past the R.A.F. polios sub-guard roan. The sesassd ess driving. Abrahams ccnfirmed the substance of the testimony of Corporal Evans os to the words and actions of accused, the condition «f Kiss Duggan, and the Identification of accused at the parade at Tldvorth (R26-29). On oroaa-exaalnatlon, he testified that accused was wearing oergaant'e stripes, and as he thought, a "rocker" and a "I* underneath (1*30). Examined by the court, he thought accused bad on a field jacket (E31),

Corporal Basil Pearson, R.A.J. Station I dies, Andover, testified that he did not know accused, ffhlle in the sub-guard room witness heard a woman ecreas. He vest outside and ran towards the direction of the scream. A car was driven down the oaap road towards him and he heard a woman shout' "stop that car". Be tried to do it bat "the car..with a terrific speed went past". It then passed by him again despite his attempt to stop it. He identified the ear as a eoaoand car, open with a top. He saw Sties Duggan at 12*15 a.a. 30 August 1943 outside the sub-guard roam. She was in a very distressed condition, rather flushed and inclined to be hysterical, with quite a large busp on the left temple. She handed his an American soldier's hat with the number B-5559 Inside, which is Pros.EzJb. (The accused's krwy serial nuaber Is 6985559) (R32-34).

Captain James £. Couty, 5th Infantry Division, lailitary Police, testified that he knew accused and that on the morning after the incident, •ceased Identified the cap, FroeJhc*A, as his cm. Be acid "1 lost It last ni#t." (£36).

It was stipulated that the value of tbs coacisnd ear described mas well in excess of £50 (R37).

Private John H. Rediford, of accused's battery, declared he wee charge of quarters 29-30 August and as such eeds bed cheek that evening between 12 tX) and 12tl5, whioh did not disc lose any sheen teem.

Be knew accused who did not turn in his pass, bat he thought accused was in bed at 12ilo or 12tl5 (R50-51). Rediford admitted he did not See hie face but notleed what be believed were accused's feet pro jesting from under bed blankets (Fol-53). As a result of this adverse testimony, the prosecution recalled Kediford (E 85) end confronted him with FreeJbufi e trip ticket of a actor vehicle bearing date of "8-29-43"'which shows "Time out 1930" and "Time in 1930". On the reverse aide of the trip ticket the vehicle movement is stated act "Stooltan to aIIvsI to Hoeltsaf

-5-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

with a rilug of am silo firm Bool tan to Alival and farther reeltest "Vehicle raise—d et 179 (epeedoneter reading) Date 30 Aug 43 et 1920 fh’1 end been the denature of "Learenm V. Zoung let Lt FA", the witness testified that independent of the ticket he had — reocl-leetioa of this duty, but edeitted the genuineness of hie signature appearing on the first page thereof* He further testified he drove lieu tan—t Zoung to Alivel at 3 PM cm 29 August 1943 end upon returning at 5s30 PM (885,87) seen—d his duties as charge of quarters. Be asserted that the.ticket met be an error in stating the tine of the trip te be firm 7LFB^dS n4 S»ae not out of the barracks at said tina (836).

Private First Clasa Robert F. Coffal, of aoeused's battery, testified that he drove a truck m a recreation run to Salisbury end return m 29 August 1943* Be identified the ticket severing the trip (PresJEz.0) bearing his signature and which is dated 8*29.43 end shows "Ties In 00il5", at wlxiah Urn, ha testified, ha ees in his quarters. Dadlfard —a charge of quartern that night and witness sow hin la orderly rom, bat did not see him leave lt. If anyone had ooae in te —be bed eheok in hie quarters he would hove notloed him, but he did net actios anyone waking bed eheok that night (K54j57). The witness did not state that be and aooused lived in sane roan or quarter*.

4,	Par the defen—, Technician 5th Grade Arnold B. Cloacats of Battery C, 5Qth Field Artillery Battalion, testified that be had been in jja—bnry m night of 29-30 August 1943 end was picked up in tbs ▼chide driven by accused end was token to Tidwccrth Garrison. The motor oar end passengers arrived in the vicinity of the Serrioe Battery Orderly Bom of the 50th Field Artillery Battalion before 12iQ0 o'clock nidnl^ht. Chan he alighted be saw it drive off in the direction of the ns— hall or no tor perk (fi60). on crops aammlnat, 1 m, he testified that be arrived at his quarters before bed shook which is hold at 12 al&» night. So—one nede bed cheek that night (Jt.61).

Private Boyle T. Benson, Battery B, 50th Field Artillery Battalion, testified that he and Clemnte rode with accused firm A—chary te lid—rth Garrison, arriving in easy about seven minutes to 12i& eld* night. He too a— the oar depart ha toward the general —as hall which is in the direction of the —tor pool (B62-63) • Hanson ndeitted that the— —re other roads near that nan ball by whioh a vehicle might have left the poet instead of going to the —tor park (B&3).

Private Jessie Chaney, of amused* e battery, testified that an the night of 29-30 August nooused sene upstairs and asked if the— sas somebody —Iking around up there. The witness heard a noise so—where.

He eonrarsed with eeeuaad. On eroae —nwl nation, he testified that about five aiastes after he talked te accused be heard so—one ah* he thought —e the charge of quarters so— around but did not am bln (364-66). Adsueed —a —aring — OJD.ooat. After the eonver—tim accused —at bask downstairs sad aade a noise — if he —re going te bed (B67-66).

CONFIDENTIAL
(271)

CONFIDENTIAL

The accused, after his rights had bean explained to his, took the stand as a sworn witness. Aocordlng to his narrative of events, hs “guessed* bo rotor nod to Xidwcortb at about 23*40 hours with Captain Juntor, Lieutenant Young, Sr. ylsmorfelt, Ur. Lacy, Cleaents and Henson. After leaving his passengers la front of the Service flattery Orderly toon, hs pcroaaedsd to tbs no tor part share be parked the ooaaand oar. lie then vent* to his quarters, share he conversed with Privates Chaney and ttllllaas. Be did act see the charge of (Quarters taking the bed-obeak tour. He has never bald the grade of Technician, ifhon he case into his quarters be thought be beard eoaeone walking around upstairs and went to see . who it was (K72-73). At ows-sscaiaatlcat hs racaabered telling tlajor dill be reached hie quartors around Ili30. (H74).	On

earningtlan by the aouxt, be testified that before be left the car. in the park be felt around- for his .cap on the front seat and floor- . board. Be identified the cap ehuwn bin in court aathe earn be.lost that night. The oap could have fallen out of the oar (R77-S -) •

It was stipulated that A. C. Longdon, if present and sworn, would testify that he was one of the British allitaiy police on duty the evening of 29 August 1943; that hs saw tbs eoataand ear in question and did not recognise the driver,' bat believed the driver .wore the . insignia of Technician 5th Grade (R3o).	•

first Sergeant Gavin T. Fleeter, of aoousod’s battery, testified that be was on 24-hour poos to Salisbury and that be returned on the pass trunk frua u lisbury between 11*45 and 12 *00.

He asked the charge of quarters if everybody was cl tacked in and bs replied n Yes”, and the wlthose went to. bed (k81) . Kxaalnation by the court showed that that was aruund 12*JO (£33)•

5.	Bajor Dswey B. Gill, Inspector General's Departaent, Iuapecter Genaral, 5th Infantry Division, appeared as a witness for tbs court. * His testiaony showed that seven or eight days after tbs incident Is question. Corporals Abrahaaa and rvuns of the It.A.F. each identified accused as the driver when they previously stopped in the B. *.r'.oaap. Twenty or. tarenty-fire sen in separate groups of four, fire or six .

men each, were exarJLned by Abmhsas and Evans. The particular group in which the aocused .was identified wee eowposed of four mm of mji*-stantially the sane else and weight and all wore fatigues (h90-93).

6.	The identity of the accused as kiss fcuggan’s assailast Is adequately established by the following evidence t test irony passengers in the oomaand ear that accused was in poesession of it shortly before 2400 hours, 29 August 1943; identification of -tbs car accused was driving as a cocaand oar by his a Duggan and three was* oooaiseionod officers of tho R.A.F. Ki.litarv Polioej evidence that accused had lost his garrison «p (Pros.Ex.A) after returning with his passengers and that hs was seen without s cap, ocahined with the girl's

-7-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

testimony that shortly after midniffct aa aha escaped tram tha iwwaai car aha sought for bar hat and picked op bar assailant'e oap by mistake aad alth accused'* identification of that asp aa tba one ha had lost) and direct testimony of tha taro H.A.i". Military polioenaa positively identifying tba aocuasd aa tha driver of tha vnhlcla stopped by them after tha assault. This evidence is confirmed by tha discrepancy of 25 alias between tha actual measured mileaga for tha day’s trip and tha ailaaga shorn on tha trip ticket aad which oould aooount for a trip to Andover soma 12 miles away. (Pro6.Ex.B), Tha oourt rasolvsd against the aeousad tha eoafllot in evidanoa aa to hia idantlty. Tha finding in this respect is supported by substantial evidence and upon appellate revlav will not be disturbed by tha hoard of Bariev (CM BTO 192, Lewlqi CM KTC 503, Riohsondi CZI £70 531, umUsrkin* CM KTO 599,

Mocsal vo).

7.	The finding of guilty of tba Specification of Charge 1, i.e., as wait aad battery upon Miss Duggan with intent to coamit rape "by willfully and feloniously attaapting to here sexual interoourae with her forcibly and against bar will" la supported by aubetontial evidence.

"Assault with intact to ooonit reps. - This is an attempt to eoosit rape in which tba avert aart amounts to an assault upon the woman intended to be ravished, indecent advwnoas, lnportuaitiav however earnest; mare threats; and actual Attempts to rape wherein tha overt act is not an aaa%nlt da not amount to this offense. * * * * *

•Me actual toughing la necessary.* * *

"Tha intent to have carnal knowledge of the -woman assaulted by force and without her aoasset ■curt exist and concur with the assault* In other words, the man seat intend to oreroose aaj resistance by tor09, actual or constructive, and penetrate tha woaaa'a person* Any laqs intent will not suffice*

"Once on assault with intent to commit rape is sads, it is no defense that the son voluntarily desisted*" (*»., 1928, per.U9 1, p.179).

The overt act, i.a., tha assault upoe tha victim, is clearly established by her direct teetlsony and is corroborated by testimony of the R*A*F. Military holies that immediately after its ooaalBfrlon she was is aa upset condition, seeping, aad hod a large bump on her fee ahead.

Is CM 233183 (1943) (Bui. JAG., May 1743, seo.451 (2), p.ltt) there ess evidence of an assault and circumstantial evidanoa of an intent be eaenit rape. The seaweed, a total stronger to tba victim, fooroed his

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(273)

■ mmsf-mm has* at a ter and weds le»d ooaaeats. thile eoaonsanrl* bar he* he forced hap to aoaa hash* aba re it waa dark and there etnudc her aad knocked her dam. There m eoae none/ la her per* tat arae was tak*. It eaa held that the record wa* legally *af-tUS^skt to eappsrt finding* of guilty of aaaeult with intent to cowait rape and the sent** adjudged on the ground that, under the fawiUar rule, la seeking the bp tire of human ooodnot, the court need not he Halted to direct evidence end that inferences and deductions trom hen conduct ney properly be ooosidered where they He* naturally Crew the act* proved.	Sin! laxly, the Intent of thia accused to hare

eemal knowledge of Kiss Duggan by force and without her consent way he inferred fro* her tea tine ay as suanariaed above and particularly froa the underscored rerbatia portions thereof, Aoouaed forced hie trlctla down on the soot of the car under hla, atruck bar face when Ac struggled with hla, aiticed her to lift bar skirt, held her by the threat end threatened to kill her if she screened* she had no doubt of hi* in tantieme ae erldanoed "by hie whole attitude*. Kiss Duggan’s tootlnray in this reepeot was edwieeihle. although her statement was a conclusion she was testifying as to foots which could not be dearly or adequately reproduced and described to the eourt. (State ▼.Collins, 294 Fan.957, 73 UK 862, 866). Accused waa in a position to affect bis Intent had be not been defeated by her rceictaaoc and fear that holy far Ids ▼ictia would arrive. Bis later decision*, evidently Induced by her kick and acres*, of course, is no defence (last sentence of CCM., 1928, par.149 1» p.179, above quoted). Considaration of the quest ion whether accused's Intent was to hare intercourse with his ▼ictia against her will, by for* end regardless of her resist** or te pursue his purpose unless she resisted, or te seta the satisfaction of his desirce to the point shore her resistance cade his efforts futile, is a speculative Indulges* that oss hare no pla* in the practical administration of Justi*. There w* substantial competent eriden* fron whioh the court wu warranted in inferring the intent as charged end its findings should not be disturbed by the Board of denri* (Cl £T0

7t> sai&j a cto 189, matesLaa	«	«o	492,	n«ni

CM KTO 595, Hjai).

8.	The findings cf guilty a* to Charge 11 and its Specification, iatentienal Misappropriation of a Govemwent actor vahisle of tbs value in arose* of 450, are awply supported by the record. Misappropriation Is dsftned es •devoting to es spaathorised puryo*" (uc«.,1928,per.150 4, p.184). The record contai* strong arid** that accused devoted the gowransat *111010 in question, valued at 41200-41300, to aa nmthnrl eed pwrpc* by drlviag it a considerable distance tram hi* pest without aay antbority.

9.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 25 years of age and

enlisted 12 October 1939 far thr* years.

-9-

C0NF1DENTIM.
CONFIDENTIAL

10.	Tear the matoa stated, the heard of Revise is ef the •pinion that the rooord ef trial is locally euffleleat to support tho findings ef guilty and the santanee. The 00 art <a legally •onstituted and had Jurlsdietien ef tha accused and ef the offenses. Ho errors injuriously affeotiag the substantial rights of the aeoueed sere eossdtted at the trial.

11.	Conflnsaent in a disciplinary training a eater in the United vingdoa in execution of a tan-year eaotenoa upon eonvietloa ef a heinous offense, while not in harnoqy with the policy aaneuneed in paragraph II, 7*, Circular / 72, KT'VSJl, 9 aoptaether 190, is legally authorised 07 paragraph II, f£ thereof, at tha dieoretisa ef tha officer examining general eourt-murtial Jurisdiction*

B. FRANKLIN RITER

CHARLES M. VAN BENSCHOTEN

ELLWOOD W. SARGENT

fudge jydveeate Judge Advocate Judge Advocate
#(275)

’ Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1015

UNITED STATES )

)

▼.	)

Private First Class BUSTER	j

BRANHAM (6669557), Battery	)

C, 46th Field Artillery	)

Battalion.	)

22 JAN 1944

5TH INFANTRY DIVISION.

Trial By G.C.M., convened at Tidworth Garrison, England, 13 October 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, suspended, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for ten years. 2912th"Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England.

OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW RHER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1* The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence in part. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.

2. Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications:

CHARGE I: Violation of the 63rd Article of War.

Specification:	In that Private First Class Buster

Branham, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, did, at Tidworth Garrison, England, on or about 28 September 1943, behave himself with disrespect toward Captain Richard D,	•

Martin, Medical Detachment, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, his superior officer, by being contemptuous, surly and unduly familiar.

CHARGE II: Violation of the 64th Article bf War.

Specification 1: In that Private First Class Buster Branham, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, ;having received a lawful command from Second Lieutenant George Dutko, Battery C, ' "*

46th Field Artillery Battalion, his superior officer, to take a hike, did, at Tidworth Garrison, England, on or about 28 September 1943, willfully disobey the same.

- 1 - CONFIDENTIAL
Specification 2:	(Finding of not guilty).

CHARGE IIIi Violation of the 65th Article of War.

(Finding of not guilty).

Specification:	(Finding of not guilty).

4

He pleaded not guilty, and was found guilty of Charge I and-its Specification and of Specification 1, Charge II and Charge II, and not guilty of Specification 2, Charge II and of Charge III and its Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for ten years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement, and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England, as the place of confinement.

The proceedings were published in General Court-Martial Orders No. 81, Headquarters 5th Infantry Division, APO 5, c/o Postmaster, New York, New York, i8 November 19A3.

3k Accused was found not guilty of the offense alleged in Specification 2, Charge II (willful disobedience of the lawful command of Lieutenant Wesley, his superior officer, in violation of Article of War 64) and of the offense alleged in the Specification of Charge III (using insubordinate language toward First Sergeant Basil R. Slaughter, a noncommissioned officer who was then in execution of his office in violation of Article of War 65). However, in view of the circumstances surrounding the commission of the offenses of which accused was found guilty, and of the nature of the defense, it is considered necessary to set forth in

substance the evidence pertaining to all charges and specifications.

• *

On the morning of 27 September 1943 First Lieutenant Clark Wesley, commanding officer of accused's organization, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, was observing the battery which had fallen out for dismounted drill. As one platoon marched by at attention he noticed" that several men had the collars of their fatigue1jackets open. Not wishing to halt the platoon, he announced generally that the men should button their collars. Several men obeyed the order but one-man (accused) failed to do so. When the platoon passed by again the lieutenant told accused to button his collar but he "still didn't." Thereupon Lieutenant Wesley walked beside.the platoon, ordered him to fall out, and when he obeyed, asked if heTneard him. Accused replied "Yes, sir, but I cannot do two things at once." • The lieutenant told him that he could do four things at once if he told him to, ordered him to button his collar before he preferred charges, and informed him that "he would hear more of it later." Accused obeyed the order, buttoned his collar and fell back in ranks (R4-5,7).

- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL

(277)

On the following evening (28 September) Lieutenant Wesley told the first sergeant (Sergeant Slaughter) that several men including accused were to take a hike (R5). On direct examination the lieutenant was asked

"Q. And what was the nature of .this hike?

A. It was to be a hike for about an hour or an hour and a half for several of. the men of the Battery, who I thought a little exercise would be good for them (R5).	.

The following question and answer occurred on cross-examination:.

'	"Q.	Now,	then	on the next day when this

trouble over the hike came up — as a . matter of fact isn't it true that you were having him take this hike as a disciplinary measure for his neglect of the previous day?	,	.

A. Yes, sir" (R7).

Between 5:00-6:00 p.m. accused came to the room of First Sergeant Basil R. Slaughter, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, and asked if he' had to go on a hike that evening. Upon being told that he did, he said "I am not taking it. I have a sore leg. I wouldn't take the hike if I did not have a sore leg." When told by Slaughter that he had better go on the hike, he replied "No." The sergeant then informed the battery commander (Lieutenant Wesley) and tsked him what he was going to do about , it." Slaughter thought accused "had had a drink", but had no proof of this fact (Rll-13).

* . *

About 5*30 p.m.‘ pursuant to Lieutenant Wesley'a orders, accused, appeared at the orderly room and was asked by the lieutenant whether or not he was going to go on the hike. He replied that it was not a question of his refusing to take the hike, that he. had received an injury in Iceland when struck on the hip' by a gun trail, that hi.s hip had been bothering him and that he had gone to the dispensary for this reason. As the lieutenant did not wish to give him a direct order to take the hike without knowing more of the circumstances of his physical ailment, he informed accused that he would have him checked by a doctor and that, if he was "capable of taking the hike according to medical authority, he would take the hike." ' Lieutenant Wesley testified that accused seemed normal and in full possession of his faculties1 and that he was not drunk. The idea that he had been driiiking never occurred to him (R6,8-9).

About 7*00 p.m. 28 September, accused entered the dispensary in a "slouchy, surly manner" and said: "Good evening, Mr. Martin" to Captain Richard D. Martin, battalion surgeon of the 46th Field Artillery Battalion The captain replied* "Mr. Martin?", whereupon accused said: "Captain Martin".	When asked if he had been on sick call that morning, accused

confIdentiai
CONFIDENTIAL

replied "I went to the dentist; that is the only way I can get away from . the organization.” Upon being asked if he had anything to drink he said "Yes, sir, I had a couple of drinks." Captain Martin then asked what he could do for him. He answered "Nothing". When asked if he had any pains or whether there was anything wrong with him, he replied "There is not a thing wrong with me." When asked by the captain if he was .going on the hike, accused said "No. They can't make me go on a hike. I will go to the guardhouse first." Although he had previously been requested to make a physical examination of accused. Captain Martin did not do so.

"I wasn't going to give him a general physical examination when there was nothing wrong with him." With reference to accused'3 sobriety at that time, the Captain testified: "He wasn't drunk. He had had a couple of beers or a couple of drinks, something like that. He was far from being drunk. He knew what he was doing at all times." (R9-10).

The deposition of Second Lieutenant George Dutko, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, was admitted in evidence as Pro3.Ex.A, the defense stating that it had no objection thereto, and that the deposition had been taken with defense counsel present and that cross-interrogatories had been presented (Rll; Pros.Ex.A). It is stated in the deposition thait it was taken by consent of the parties in view of the contemplated unavailability of the witness, and that it was to be offered, introduced and read in evidence before a general court-martial appointed by paragraph 1, Special Orders No. 92, Headquarters 5th Infantry Division, 18 September 1942 as amended by paragraph 1, Special Orders No. 105, same headquarters, 13 October 1943, the trial court. It Is further stated therein that the trial judge .advocate and defense counsel were present.

The defense counsel propounded cross-interrogatories.

Lieutenant Dutko deposed that about 7:30 p.m. 28 September, he was present in the orderly room of Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion. He sent the charge of quarters and two non-commissioned officers to get accused who later appeared at the orderly room, saluted, and said "Private First Class Branham reporting as ordered, sir." He told Lieutenant Dutko that he was not feeling well and was unable to take a hike, whereupon the lieutenant informed him that the medical officer. Captain Martin, had pronounced him able and fit to take the hike. Lieutenant Dutko then said "Branham, this Is a direct order. Will you take this hike." He replied "No,, sir, I won't." The order to take the hike was given in the presence of three non-commissioned officers pursuant to instructions which had previously been received by the lieutenant from his superior officer in the battery, Lieutenant Shannon. When he sent for accused and ga.ve him the order in the presence of the three witnesses, he was merely following out these instructions. Lieutenant Dutko "had some knowledge, but not a complete knowledge" of what had occurred earlier in the day. He noticed .nothing unusual about the condition of accused who had, however, "seemed to be distressed about something". He did not know if the man was drunk, nordid he know whether or not he was then physically fit to go on the hike (Pros.Ex.A).

- 4 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(279)

The ordef* to take the hike was given by Lieutenant Dutko in the presence of Staff Sergeant Harry Schroedter, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, who heard accused reply that "he wasn’t goihg to take the hike". Accused had reported to the lieutenant in the proper manner, and Schroedter did not notice whether he had been drinking or whether he was under the influence of liquor (R14.-16).

Accused did not go on.the hike (R5,15).

4.	For the defense. Private First Class John J. Brewster, Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion, testified that from 10:30 or 11:00 a.m. until about 12:30 p.m, 28 September, he was with accused in a pub named the Ram. Accused was1 drinking whiskey and beer and was one of a group of three men who, with two other men, drank a quart of whiskey.

When-Brewster left the pub at about 12:30 p.m. accused acted as though he was "pretty high" (R17-18).

It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that if Private First Class Sampson Douglas, Jr., were present he would testify in substance that on 28 September he and accused went to the Ram about 11:30 a.m. where they drank about five or six "double shots" of whiskey "chased" by beer. When they left at about 2:30 p.m. to return to the battery area, accused was feeling "pretty high." When the postexchange opened about 5:00 p.m. the two men "resumed drinking beer."

About 6:00 p.m. the charge of quarters of accused's battery came to the post-exchange to take him to the orderly room.	In the opinion of

Douglas, when he left the building accused was very much under the influence of liquor. "*** he was, however, able to walk straight;— he was making efforts to walk straight ***." (R19).

5.	The evidence is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and of the Specification thereunder (behaving with disrespect toward his superior officer. Captain Liartin, in violation of • Article of War 63). Accused entered the dispendary•in a "surly, slouchy manner" and said "Good evening, Mr. Martin." He said that he had gone to the dentist because it was the only way he could "get away from the organization." He further stated that he was not going on the hike, that he could not-be made to go, and that he would "go to the guardhouse first." . His behavior was clearly disrespectful and was contemptuous, surly and unduly familiar as alleged.

The defense introduced evidence to the effect that accused had been drinking rather heavily during the day, and that he was drunk when he left the post-exchange "to go to the orderly room. Captain Martin testified that although accused had had a couple of beers or drinks, he was far from being drunk while at the dispensary at 7:00 p.m., and that he knew what he was doing at all times. Sergeant Slaughter thought

5	-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(280) -

that accused "had had a drink" when he‘came to the former's room between 5:00-6:00 p.m. but had no proof of this fact. According to' Lieutenant Wesley, who saw accused about 5:30 p.m., the idea that he had been drinking never occurred to him. Accused had seemed normal and in full possession of his faculties. Lieutenant Dutko noticed nothing unusual about his condition at 7:30 p.m. although he "seemed to-be distressed about something." He did not know if accused was drunk. The issue of drunkenness was one of fact for the sole determination Of the court and in view of the evidence, the Board of Review will not disturb its findings (CM ET0 1065, Stratton).

6.	With reference to the offense alleged in Specification 1 of Charge II (willful disobedience of the order of Lieutenant Dutko, his superior officer, in violation of Article of War 64), it is evident that when giving the order to accused in the presence of three witnesses, Lieutenant Dutko was merely carrying out express instructions which he had previously received from superior authority and acted, so to speak, simply as a conduit. He had been instructed by his superior officer in the battery. Lieutenant Shannon, to order accused to take the hike. However, in view of all the evidence, including the testimony of Lieutenant Wesley, accused's battery commander, it is apparent that Lieutenant Wesley himself was primarily responsible for the ultimate issuance of the order by Lieutenant Dutko and the merits of the case should be discussed accordingly.

There can be no doubt that the order given accused was clearly intended as a punishment for his conduct at drill on the previous day, and that the order to go on the hike was not given in furtherance of any ordinary routine training program as such. When Lieutenant Wesley gave accused the final order to button his collar, he told him that "he would hear more of it later". The lieutenant thought that "a little exercise would be good" for several men, including accused, who were to take the hike. He answered in the affirmative when‘asked on cross-examination if he was having accused take the hike "as a disciplinary measure for his neglect of the previous day". .

As the order was intended as a punishment the provisions of Article of War 104. become pertinent. By virtue of that article

"**** the commanding officer of any detachment, company, or higher command may, for minor offenses, impose disciplinary punishments upon persons of his command •without the intervention of a court-martial, unless the accused demands trial by court-martial ****" (AW IGA). (Underscoring supplied).

6

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(281)

"The commanding officer, after ascertaining to his satisfaction, by such ingestig-ation as he deems necessary, .that an offense cognizable by him under AW 104 has been committed by a member of his command, Trill notify such member of the nature of etch offense as clearly and concisely as mav be. and inform him that he proposes to impose punishment under AW 104 as to such offense • unless trial by court-martial for the same is demanded, ihhhh*. (mBM.. 1928. par.107■ p.104). (Underscoring supplied).

ftith reference to each offense as to which no demand for trial by court-martial is made, the commanding officer may proceed to impose punishment. The accused will be notified of the punishment imposed as soon as practicable and at the same time will be informed of his right' to appeal. *•**-***.

(MCM., 1928, par.107, p.105). (Underscoring supplied).

"A person punished under authority of this article who deems his punishment unjust or disproportionate to the offense may, through proper channels, appeal to the next superior * authority, but may in the meantime be required to'-undergo the punishment adjudged.

(AW 104). An appeal not made within a reasonable time may be rejected by the 'next superior authority'. An appeal will 1	be	in writing through proper channels ****

and will include a brief signed statement of the reasons for regarding the punishment as unjust or disproportionate. The immediate commanding officer of the accused will when necessary include with the appeal a copy of the record **** in the case. ****."

(IJCM., 1928, par.108, p.105).

During drill on the morning of 27 September, accused was marching in formation with the collar of his fatigue jacket unbuttoned. Although he admittedly heard Lieutenant Wesley'3 order to button his collar, he failed to do so. When ordered to fall out of formation by Lieutenant Wesley, he offered the insufficient excuse that he could not "do two things at once". * He finally buttoned his jacket when again ordered to do so. This offense by accused was a "minor offense" for which punishment might be imposed pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 104. "Generally speaking, the term includes derelictions not involving moral

- 7 -

MNFIDENTIAt
CONFIDENTIAL

turpitude or any greater degree of criminality or seriousness than is' involved in the average offense tried by summary court-martial" (LKM., 1928, par.105, p.103).

- The order to go on the hike was intended to be given as a punishment (Lieutenant Wesley expressly testified that wa3 his intention) (R7), but there was no evidence that accused was notified'that disciplinary action under Article of War 104 was contemplated, that he could demand trial by court-martial in lieu of accepting the punishment, or that he was informed 1 of his right to appeal to superior authority if he believed the punishment to be unjust. The requirements of AW 104 as stated in the Manual for Courts-Martial that the accused (a) be given the opportunity to demand trial by court-martial before imposition of punishment, and (b) be informed of his right to appeal to superior author ity if he believes the punishment imposed is unjust, are mandatory, and the failure of the officer imposing the punishment to notify the accused of his rights nullifies the order of punishment and renders it illegal. (Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-19AO, sec.4.62(5), p.370).

The case under consideration is readily distinguishable from the case cited in Dig.Ops.JAG., 1912-1940, sec,422(6), pp.286-287, (CM 200289 (1933))• In that case accused was convicted of refusing to obey a lawful order to scrub a floor, a punishment imposed under AW 104. The record did not show that he.was advised of his right to demand trial in lieu of accepting the punishment, but did show that he was advised of his right to appeal to higher authority, and that the Articles of War had been read to him on several occasions. It was held that in the absence of an affirmative showing"to the contrary, it must be presumed that punishment under Article of War 104 was'lawfully imposed after compliance with all the preliminary requirements. It was further held that the order was a lawful one and the conviction was sustained. However, in that case the provisions of Article of War 104 were at least partially complied with in that accused was specifically informed of his right to appeal to higher authority, and it is reasonable to presume, in the absence of a contrary showing, that the other preliminary requirements were fully observed. ’ In the present case the record of trial is completely silent with reference to compliance with any of the requirements of the article and indicates rather clearly that no compliance was attempted. Consequently, no basis whatsoever is furilished for any such presumption. The order of punishment was, therefore, illegal.

In view of the foregoing the Board of Review is of the opinion that the evidence,is legally insufficient to sustain the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II and of Charge II.

7.	A commanding officer is authorized to order a soldier to go on a practice march or hike as a form of additional training, as he i3 authorized to order other additional training for backward soldiers, provided the additional training is reasonable, as, for example, where

— 8 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(283)

a soldier is not up to standard in the manual of arms, close order drill, etc. As a commander, he could no doubt order an additional practice march if the physical condition of the soldier or his state of training is such as to require it and make it a reasonable measure of training.

But this is not such a case. Lieutenant Wesley testified that this hike was ordered as a disciplinary measure for accused's neglect of the previous day, A practice march is clearly a military duty and is not in the nature of extra fatigue duty within the purview of Article of War 104-. Courts-Martial are prohibited from degrading military duties such as drill by imposing them as punishments (LKM., 1928, par.102, p.92). Obviously the same prohibition applies to disciplinary punishments; military duties may not be degraded by their use as forms of punishment under Article of War 104.

8,	The Board of Review expresses no opinion with reference to the question of the admissibility in evidence of the deposition of Lieutenant Dutko.

9.	The charge.sheet shows that accused ie 26 years of age and that he enlisted at Fort Knox, Kentucky, 13 October 1939 for a period of three years. He had no prior service.

10.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and of the Specification thereunder, legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II and of Charge II, and legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as involves confinement at hard labor for six months and forfeiture of two-thirds of his pay per month for a like period.

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(284)

22 JAN 1944 TO: Commanding

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

TO, Branch Office TJAG,, with ETOUSA. General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. A. Amy,

1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 50i-as amended by the Act of 20 August 1937 (50 Stat. 724; 10 U.S.C. 1522) and an further amended by Public Law 693, 77th Congress, 1 August 1942 is the record of trial in the case of Private First Class BUSTER BRANHAM (6669557), Battery C, 46th Field Artillery Battalion.

2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of- Review and for the reasons stated therein recommend that the findings of guilty of Specification 1, Charge II and of Charge II be vacated, that so much of the sentence be vacated as is in excess of confinement at hard labor for six months and forfeiture of two-thirds of his pay per month for a like periodJ and that all rights, privileges and property of which accused has been deprived by virtue of that portion of the findings and sentence so vacated, be restored.

» ,

3.	The accused in this case was surly, undisciplined, insubordinate. He deserves more punishment than this holding permits, but the responsibility for that result lies elsewhere, . This case is an example of the exercise of ■unrestrained authority by officers, which caused Congress after the last war to revise the procedure governing courts-martial to include the present Article of War 104, limiting and regulating the disciplinary power of a commanding officer. Punishments must be of the kind permitted by the Article and" imposed as there required; soldiers may not be punished at the arbitrary whim of an officer. There is great need for the instruction of junior officers in their duties toward the men committed to their .charge, and in the proper exercise of their command powers.

4.	Inclosed is a form of action designed to. carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is a draft GCMO for use in promulgating the proposed.action. Please return the record of trial with required copies of GCMO. '

3	Incls:

Incl.l' Record of trials Incl,2 Form of action . Incl.3 .Draft GCMO /

(Findings and sentence vacated in part in accordance with recommendation of the Assistant Judge Advocate General-. GCMO 3, ETO, 25 Jan 1944)

'E. C. McNSlL,

Brigadier General; • United States Amy, ; Assistant JiidgerC^^^Sil^Qeneral.
#(285)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General ’■with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD CF REVIEW ETO 1017

UNITED ST AT E S	)

)

!

Private ROBERT Ai MCCUTCHEON	)

(20515936), Company C, Uth	)

Replacement Battalion.	)

“ 9 DEC 1943

CENTRAL BASE SECTION, SERVICES CP SUFPLI, EUROPEAN THEATER CP OPERATIONS.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at London, England 29 October. 19h3.	Sentence:

Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor fo£ 30 years. The United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTM and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following charges and specifications!

.	•	.V	•

CHARGE It Violation of- the 58th Article of War-.

Specification:	In	that	Private	Robert A* McCutcheon,

• Company C, Uth Replacement Battalion, ETOUSA, did, at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England, on or about lU December 19U2, desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he .was apprehended at London,

. England, on or about 2 October 19U3.

CHARGE II: Violation of the 96th Article of Wa*.

Specification: In that Private Robert A. McCutcheon,

Company C, Uth Replacement Battalion, ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about 2 October 19U3, without lawful authority appear in a the uniform of a .commissioned officer, and wrongfully represent himself to be an officer commissioned in the army of the United States!

CHARGE III:' Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification 1:	In	that	Private	Robert	A.	McCutcheon,

Company C, Uth Replacement Battalion, ETOUSA, did, at London, England, on or about % August 19U3, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one khaki Bhirt, value of about four dollars ($U.OO), one pair of pink trousers, of the

CONFIDENTIAL. ” 1 ~
(286)

CONFIDENTIAL

value of about eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50), the property of 2nd Lt.,

Lewis H. Walker, 559th Bombardment Squadron, 387th Bombardment Group,

ETOUSA.

Specification 2: (Nolle prosequi by direction of appointing authority).

CHARGE Tft Violation of the 9lith Article of War. ^

(Nolle prosequi -by direction of appointing authority).

Specification: (Nolle prosequi by direction of. appointing authority).	'

He pleaded guilty to the Specification of Charge 1 "except the words ' 'desert* and 'in desertion', substituting therefor the words 'absent himself without leave from* and 'without leave'; of the excepted words.

Not Guilty; of the substituted words. Guilty", and not guilty to Charge I but guilty of a violation of Article of War 61, guilty to Charge II and its. Specification, and guilty to Specification 1, Charge III and Charge III. He was found guilty of all charges and specifications upon which he was tried. Evidence of one previous‘Conviction^J’fJSnrt-martial for desertion involving an absence of 10 days in violation of Article of War 58, and for attempting to defraud a department store in violation of Article of War 96 was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorable discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may. direct for 30 years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the United States Penitentiary, Lewisburg Pennsylvania as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50^.

3* The evidence for the prosecution is substantially as follows:

The defense stating that it had no objection thereto, a certified

extract copy of the.morning report of accused's organization was admitted

in evidence, which recites that he went absent without leave on lU December

19l|2 (R6; Pros.Exil). It was stipulated that accused's organization was

at Lichfield, England and that he was in the military service (R6).

*

On 2 October 19h3, Staff Sergeant William Slevin, C.I.D. Detachment, APO 887 saw accused enter a building numbered 38 Redcliffe Square, London, wearing the uniform of a captain of the United States Air Force, and carrying1 a type of trench coat worn by officers. Slevin and an agent named Kozak went to a flat on the second.floor of the building and knocked at the door, which was opened by accused. He was then dressed In officer's pink trousers and an "O.D.n lightweight shirt. Upon being asked if he was Robert McCutcheon, accused replied that he was Captain Walker of the United States Air Force and produced "an identity" which bore "his resemblance of a picture" and contained the description "Captain Harold L. Walker, U.S. Air Force, from R.A.F.". He also produced identity tags issued to Lieutenant Lewis H. Walker, stating that He had changed his

\

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL*
(287)

GonfidenM

name because he preferred to be kjaojsn. as "Hal*. Slevln left on the pretence of making an investigation to pee if there was a Captain Harold L. Walker, and returned to inform accused that there was no Captain Harold L* Walker in t)ie United States Air Force. Accused then said "Well, I guess you have got me. I am McCutcheon" (R6-8).

The defenpe stating that it had no objection thereto, the following exhibits which, with one exception (Pros.Ex.lli) were found in the flat of accused or on his person, were identified by Slevin and admitted in evidence* blouse and shirt worn by accused (R8j Pros.Exs. 2,3); coat which accused had carried on his arm (R8-9i Pros.Ex.U)j two pairs of officerfe pink trousers, one of which was worn by accused, and two officer’s shirts (R9; Pros.Exs. 5#6,7)j officer's coat with captain's bars, battle dress, officer Aip Force model and two pairs of officer's olive drab trousers (RIO; ProsExs. 8,9,10); officer's cap with captain's insignia, picture, of accused in an enlisted man's uniform with sergeant's stripes, picture of accused with an unknown friend, both as sergeants, and a pass for the period 11 - 16 August 19U3, made out to Technical Sergeant R. McCutcheon which was found on the person of a deserter from the Canadian merchant marine (RIO-11;.Pros.Exs. 11,12,13,11;) ; a "home made" letter of notification of the transfer, with the rank of second lieutenant, of "plight Sergeant" Harold L. Walker from the Royal Air Force to the United States Army Air Force and two pictures of accused in the uniform of a United States Amy Air Force lieutenant (R12; Pros.Exs. 15,16,17); an application for leave of absence which was, according to the testimony of Slevin issued to Captain Harold Walker, the description of the exhibit itself, however, being -teat of a "Grounded certificate" (R12jPrqs.Ex.l8)j an order "made up by the accused" citing his promotion from’ second lieutenant to captain, and identification tags issued to Lewis H. Walker and worn by accused when apprehended (R13; Pros.Exs. 19,20)j an obliterated and altered official A.G.O. form 65-U shown by accused to Slevin and containing, according to. the testimony of Slevin his picture and the name "Harold L. Waljcer, Captain, Air Corps," the description of the exhibit itself, however, being an AGO card belonging to "Lewis H. Walker" (R13j Pros .Ex. 21); two ."hope-m^ade" identification cards bearing accused's pictures in an American officer's uniform with the words "Harold L. Walker Capt AC FR RAF to US", one being a purported form W.D., A.G.O. 65-U and the other an identification and membership card for members of the "133 Eagle Squadron only" (Rllij Pros .Pics. 22,23); a pilot and. crew member physical record card in the name of Captain Harold Walker and a "home made leave of absence* in the name of Captain Harold L. Walker (Rlli-l5; Pros. Exs«2l;,2£)j a picture of accused in the uniform of an American Arny Air Force captain with several service ribbons thereon, and a "short snorter" (Rlf>; Pros.Exs. 26,27); ''several rubber stamps bearing legends of an official military character and some ink pads (Rl£-l6; Pros.Exs,28,29).

Accused wa£ taken to the investigating officer at 33 Davies Street, London (Rl6).	.

On 13 August 19li3 Lieutenant Lewis H. Walker, 559th Bombardment Squadron, 387th Bombardment Group was in London on pass and registered at the Red Cross Club, Princess Gardens. . When he awakened "in the morning"

MNFIDENTIM. “ 3 “
(288)	CONFIDENTIAL

he found missing a shirt, and a pair of trousers which contained his "war Department pass" (AGO Card), his identification tags, about ten ■ shillings in .change, a knife and a cigarette lighter. JLt the trial he identified Pros .Ex. 6 and Pros.Ex. 20 as his missing trousers and identification tags. He also identified Pros.Ex.21 as l£s missing AGO card. ("War Department Pass") by the signature thereon of one. Major . Kilgore, aqd also by his serial number, the last digit of which had been changed. He did not give accused permission to take his property (Rl$-U).

On 2$ October 19h3, after being warned as to his rights, accused made a statement to Staff Sergeant James D. Murphy, C.I.D., Theater Provost Marshal's Office, APO 88?.' Murphy identified the statement which had been reduced to writing and thee signed and acknowledged by accused. -It was admitted in evidence with reference to the charge of desertion only .(H17-18; Pros.Ex.30). Accused stated therein in pertinent part that he went abs.ent without leave on 3 or U December 1?U2. and eventually went to LQndon.' -During his absence he lived on money solicited from American soldiers, prostitutes, and from women with whom he lived. He received money from the Rro,ceeds of worthless checks cashed by another soldier, and used fictitious passes which he made up. for his own use. He also made out passes for the use of others. He talked, to various, sailors about going to Africa but was told that the journey was impossible. Part of the .time he wore the chevrons of a technical sergeant, U.S.A.A.F., gunner's wings and an Air Force shoulder patch, but during his absence never wore civilian clothing. He met an American soldier named Gibson with wham he planned to steal articles from various, clubs and to dispose of the stolen property. With this idea in mind, during the latter part of August they went to the Princess Garden Red Cross Club and registered, using fictitious passes which accused had executed. One night Gibson stole an officer's sun tan shi,rt, a pair of officer's pink trousers, identification tags and an A.G.O. form No.6£-U belonging to Lieutenant Lewis Walker, 0-662703. Because the lieutenant's description fitted, accused they decided that he should impersonate the officer. . He altered the A.G.O. card by burning a corner of it bearing the name "Lewis H.n, changing the last number in the serial number from "3" to "8", erasing the name "Lewis H. Walker" and insering "Harold L. Walker" and by adding the words "Promoted to Capt. 8/3Q/U3, Maj. L.C. Landis". He also substituted his own picture for that of Lieutenant Walker. Accused carried the card in his identification folder from then on. . The following day they purchased a United States Army battle dress jacket of a type used by members of the Air Force, and also a peaked officer's cap. Accused wore the stolen trousers and shirt, together with the battle dress jacket and peaked hat. On several occasions he pawned articles which had been dolen by Gibson, and they divided the proceeds. He made purchases of' officer's clothing and insignia, and wore, several articles of offiqer's clothing received from Gibson. During the time he impersonated an officer . he wore the insignia of a second lieutenant and captain, and wore without light the "Purple Heart Ribbon, the D.F.C. ribbon, Air,Medal ribbon, with three clusters, and the British D.F.M. ribbon". He used the names of "Lewis H. Walker" and "Harold L. Walker". He "made up" the "short snorter" by writing the names thereon himself, and on several occasions falsely

stated thah_.he served in the "R.A.F.^and the^Oanadian Air Force.___.He

further identified several of the articles found in his possession when
Confidential

(289)

apprehended on 2 October 19l*3 at 38 Redcliffe Square (Pros.Ex.30).

U. Upon being advised of his rights accused elected to make an unsworn written statement (R19; Def.Ex.l). In brief, accused stated that he had been a soldier since 27 April 19l*0 and was sent to England under guard. His morale was then low. He was "afraid to die" and felt he had received unfair treatment. He was "completely strong headed" and went absent without leave without "giving anything a second thought".

■While absent he heard that desertion in time of war might result in being shot by a firing squad, or life imprisonment. Accordingly, he thought it would be "just as bad" for him if he surrendered. He tried to board a ship for Africa with the hope of joining a unit at the battle front. He had realized the error of his conduct and aksed for a chance to redeem himself (Def.Ex.l).	'

3.	The certificate of previous convictions (Pros.Ex.3l) does not contain the date of the commission of the offense alleged under AW 96 (attempt to defraud). The defense did not object to the receipt of the evidence. Such an omission did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused (CM 210683, Le Gette).

6.	In view of the plea of guilty of absence without leave with respect to the offense of desertion alleged in Charge I and Specification thereunder, the only question presented for consideration is whether the evidence is legally sufficient to establish the requisite intent to desert. Accused's prolonged absence of almost ten months was terminated by apprehension. Although he was for several months in the vicinity of military installations

he did not surrender to military authority. He lived on money solicited from. soldiers and prostitutes, on the proceeds of thefts in which he participated, posted as and wore clothing of a certain commissioned officer, used this officer's identity card which he had,altered, and his identification tags.

He also forged passes for his own use, and tried to board a ship to Africa. ‘

The evidence was legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of Charge I and its Specification (CM ETO 932, Mosser; CM ETO 913 Piemo;

CM ETO 823, Poteetj CM ETO 800, Ungardj CM ETO 7U0, Lane). The entry of 6 January 191*3 in Pros.Ex.l (morning report) citing the change in accused's status from absent without leave to desertion, was an administrative conclusion only and was, therefore, inadmissible. No objection to its introduction was made by the defense.

The pleas of guilty to Charge II and its Specification and to

Specification 1, Charge III and to Charge III, were also fully supported

by the evidence, including both statements of accused. It was alleged in

Specification 1, Charge HI that the offense of larceny was committed

23 August 19U3, and accused, in his statement to Murphy said that the theft

occurred, during the latter part of August. It might be inferred, however,

from the testimony of the owner of the property. Lieutenant Walker, that

the theft occurred during the night of 13 August. The variance^ if any,

was immaterial (CM 172183, Tourey).	’

* "

7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of age and that

he enlisted at Dayton, Ohio 27 April 19l*0 for three years, his service being governed by the Service Extension Act.

Confidential

-5-
CONhUpTiaL

8* The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offenses. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of-brial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty of the charges and specifications upon which accused was tried, and the sentence.	\

9.	Pursuant to paragraph 9c, GO # 37, ETOUSA,' 9 September 19U2 as amended by GO # 63, ETOUSA, U December 19l;2 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may.be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same order a general prisoner may be returned to the United States to serve a sentence of three years or more. Confinement of accused ir>4 penitentiary is authorized for the offense of desertion^in time of war. (AST 1*2).

Judge Advocate Judge Advocate

ge Advocate

CONFIDENTIAL
(291)

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind. - q npn 1943 TO, Branch Office of TJAG with ETOUSA.	TO: Commanding

General, Central Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army.

1.	In the case of Private ROBERTA. McCUTCHEQN (20?1?936),

Company 0, Uth Replacement Battalion attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient ,io support the findings of guilty of the charges and specifications upon which he was tried, and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of HITar 50j you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this ' office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. . The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1017. For convenience of feference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: ' (ETO 1017).	.

^ E. C. McNEIL,

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(293)

CONFIDENTIAL

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations

APO

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1036

UNITED- STATES j

• ) )

Private MARSHALL K. HARRIS	)

(6153269), Company A,	37th	)

Replacement Battalion,	10th	)

Replacement Depot.	)

.-9 DEC 1943

WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.

Trial by 6.C.M., convened at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield} England, 13 November 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for 10 years. The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	- The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge, and Specifications

CHARGE: Violation of the 58th Article of War.

Specification: . In that Private Marshall K. Harris,

Company A., 37th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot-, Whittington Barracks,-Lichfield, England, did, at Whittington Barracks, Lichfield, England, on or about 15 October 1943 desert the service of the United States and did remain absent in desertion until he was apprehended at Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, on or about 23 October 1943.

He pleaded not guilty to and was found gvjjLlty of the Charge and Specification. Evidence of three previous convictions, two by special courts-martial ..and one by summary court for absences without leave of 52, 48 and 25 days respectively in violation of Article of War 61, were introduced. He was sentenced to.be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for ten years.

-1-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of' trial for action, pursuant, to the provisions of Article of War 50£.

3.	The evidence for the prosecution may be summarized as follows:

The morning report of accused's organization was identified by his company commander, Captain Leroy Cunningham, Infantry, was admitted in evidence and later withdrawn, and an extract-copy certified by Captain Cunningham was inserted in the trial record in lieu thereof. It contained in pertinent part the following entries:

"16 Oct.1943.

6153269 Harris, Marshal X. FA Pvt.

Duty to AWOL 2359 Hrs. 15 Oct. (LC)

****** *

24 Oct.1943.

6153269 Harris (Abs Conft) Pvt.

Abs Conft to Conft Post Guardhouse APO 874 1830 hrs. 23 Oct.(LC)"

(R6; Pros.Ex.l).

At 11.25 p.m., 22 October 1943, Constable Chatles Terrance of the Birmingham City Police noticed accused on a street in Birmingham, dressed in a civilian suit that was much too small for him. Upon being stopped by Terrance:and asked who he was and where he was going, accused said that his name was Marshall Harris, that he was in the American merchant marine navy and that he was picking up a lorry to Wolverhampton. Asked where he got his army type shirt, he said "from a friend down the road" and pointed towards the Bull Ring. (R6-7). During the conversation he said that he obtained his suit "aboard a ship". Terrance took him to the police station where he voluntarily-revealed that he was.in the military service. ' He was wearing a khaki shirt, a brown civilian coat and trousers and had an identification tag around his neck. Terrance did not know if he wore trousers underneath the civilian clothing (R7).

About 2345 hours, 22 October, accused was turned over by the civil police to Corporal Beryl E. Foster, Company A, 769th Military Police.

He was.wearing a civilian coat and trousers, an army "O.D." shirt and identification tags. In the opinion of Foster-he did not wear trousers under the civilian trousers because the latter "were so tight on him" (R8-9).

4.	For the defense, a sworn statement signed by accused and made before Second Lieutenant Thomas B. Weatherly, Infantry, investigating officer, was received in evidence (R9-10; Def.Ex.2). It was stated

-2-

C0NFIDENT1AI
UUNFIDENTIAL

(295)

therein that accused realized that he was not compelled to make a statement unless he wished to do so, and that his statement could be used in evidence in a trial by court-martial. In substance he stated that he left his organization on pass to Lichfield at about 1800 hours, on Friday, 15 October 194-3, the pass expiring at 2330 hours that evening. He wore his class A uniform. He "got drunk" v in Lichfield and remembered nothing until the following Thursday -(21 October) when he found himself in Birmingham. He was then wearing civilian clothes over his uniform but did not know how he got them or how he happened to be wearing them. Between Thursday and Friday night he remained in Birmingham trying to become sober before he turned himself in. He wore the civilian clothing over his uniform as it was badly torn and "would have made a very bad appearance". He decided to start back to camp and was apprehended by the military police on Friday night. He never intended to desert, his drunkenness being the cause of his absence without leave. This occasion was the first in ten months on which he had had anything to drink and he "just overdid it". (Def.Ex.2).

I	•	‘

Accused, after being warned of his rights, testified that when he left camp his trousers were in good condition (R15), and that he remembered nothing from the time he became intoxicated in Lichfield on the night of 15 October until he found himself in Birmingham.

On Thursday he felt "damn funny", had a bad headache and roamed, around the city (R12). When apprehended he was wearing a woolen • undershirt, woolen trousers (under pants), army socks, "O.D." trousers and "O.D." shirt, black knit tie, blouse,- civilian trousers and civilian coat (RIO). The civilian clothing was worn outside his -uniform, the uniform blouse being under his shirt (R.10-11). As he had been drunk he did not know how he happened to be then wearing the civilian clothing (RIO, 12-14). He had not removed the civilian clothes because he found that the trousers of his uniform were badly tom and he "did not want to disgrace the U.S. Army uniform" (RIO, 13u14). He did not know how his trousers became tom (R.15). He did not want to surrender until he became sober and was getting ready to turn himself in when apprehended (R13). He did not remember whether or not he had told Constable Terrance that he was a member of the American merchant marine or.that he was on his way to Wolverhampton. He was sober when apprehended (R.12). The military trousers worn by accused when arrested were offered in evidence by the defense, admitted, and later withdrawn (Rll; Def. Ex.4).

5 (a). The entry in the morning report (Pros.Ex.1) dated 24 October 1943, reciting the change in accused's status from absence without leave to absent in confinement in Birmingham, wa3 apparently • hearsay in character and therefore inadmissible. Ho objection was made by the defense. The irregularity was non-prejudicial.

(b). The morning report, admitted as Pros.Ex.l.(R6), and accused's statement to Lieutenant Weatherly, admitted as Def.Ex.2 (RIO) were not so labelled. The trousers were offered in evidence.by the

i'

-3-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(296)

defense (Rll), but the exhibit itself is described as that of the prosecution (Pros.Ex.4).

(c). The defense stated that as the evidence showed that accused was in the hands of 'the military police prior to midnight 22 October, accused should not be charged with an absence without leave ending 0010 hours 23 October. The law member announced that the court would give consideration to the fact that accused was apprehended before midnight 22 October (R9). The court found accused guilty of the offense as alleged. There was no variance between the offense alleged in the Specification and the finding of guilty thereof, as the absence of accused was alleged to have been terminated by apprehension on or about 23 October 1943.

(d). One of the three previous convictions introduced in evidence was for absence without leave from 17 June 1942 to 8 August

1942	in violation of Article of War 61. As this offense was committed more than one year prior to the offense charged herein, other previous absences considered, its receipt in evidence was erroneous (MCM., 1928, par.79o, p.66). However, in view of the present authorized maximum punishment for the-offense of desertion (death) and the period of confinement adjudged (ten years), the error did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused (CM 211080, Basham).

6.	' The evidence, including the statement and testimony of accused, shows that accused went absent without leave at 2359 hours' on 15 October

1943	at- the place alleged, and that he was apprehended at the place alleged on 22 October 1943. The only question presented for consideration is whether the evidence is legally sufficient to establish the requisite intent to desert. His absence without leave of eight days was terminated by apprehension. He was then wearing civilian clothes. Although he gave his real name to Constable Terrance he stated that he was a member of the American merchant marine navy, that he was on his way to Wolverhampton, that he got from a friend the army type shirt he was wearing, and that he obtained the civilian suit "aboard a ship". However, accused admitted in his testimony that he was sober when apprehended, that the shirt was his, and that he did not know how he happened to be wearing the civilian clothes. He also testified that he became drunk in Lichfield on the evening of Friday, 15 October and did not remember anything until he found himself

in Birmingham on'the following Thursday (21 October). He did not then surrender to military control because he wanted to "sober up". An examination of a map of England shows that Birmingham is about 20 miles from Lichfield where he was stationed.

Any conflict in the evidence, with respect to the question of intent to desert was a question of fact for the determination of the court. If the evidence was legally sufficient to support the inferential finding by the court that accused had such an intent, the Board of Review will not disturb such finding.

-4-

CONFIDENTIAL
COurlbtN UAL

"Determination of the question as to whether	(297)

an absence is ’much prolonged' or satisfactorily explained, within the meaning of par. 130a, MCM, must depend upon the circumstances of the absence.

An arbitrary yardstick of time may not be "implied. ****. CM 2138lT7l9~40)~» (Dig.Ons.JAG 1912-1940, sec.416(9), p.270). (Underscoring supplied).

In CM 196187, Roath. the only evidence of desertion in the record , of trial consisted of whatever inference could be drawn from an absence without leave for 18 days, accused's failure to return until apprehended and the fact that he was dressed in civilian clothes at the time of apprehension. It was held that the evidence was legally sufficient to support a finding of guilty of absence without leave only.

In the case under consideration, the period of absence was eight days and accused was apprehended about 20 miles from his station. .He admitted that he was sober when apprehended. He falsely represented to the constable that ha was a member of the American merchant marine.

His statement to Terrance as to the manner in which he secured the civilian clothing and army shirt varied materially from his testimony at the trial. Although he testified that he was about to surrender when apprehended, he also told the constable that he was on his way to Wolverhampton. Wolverhampton is about 20 miles northwest of Birmingham and about 20 miles southwest of Lichfield, where he was stationed. He did not disclose that he was in the military service until after he had been taken into custody. The foregoing evidence would fully justify a belief by the court that accused falsely represented his status with the purpose of avoiding apprehension. It was entitled to disbelieve his testimony with reference to the wearing of the civilian clothing and to infer from all the evidence that he wore it in order to avoid detection. In the opinion of the Board of Review the evidence is legally sufficient to establish the intent to desert.

7.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 22 years of age, that * he enlisted at Springfield,'Massachusetts, 20 June 1940, and that his service is governed by the Service Extension Act of 1941. He had no prior service.

8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and of the offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.

9.	Pursuant to paragraph 5c, GO # 37 ET0USA, 9 September 1942

as amended by'GO if 63, ET0USA, 4 December 1942 a sentence of dishonorable discharge may be ordered executed when accused is sentenced to confinement for not less than three years. By virtue of the same orders a general

-5-

C0NF1DENTIAL
' prisoner may be'returned to the 'United States -to-serve,a sentence of three years or more. Confinement in a penitentiary is authprized ; for the: offense of ‘desertion in time of war (AW .42). As .accused is under "31-years-of age and his sentence is not mere than 10 years,>. the designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe,' Ohio is - correct ^(War Department Circular 291, 10 November .194-3, > section V 3a).

-6"

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(299)

1st Ind.

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. ^	1943	} Q0mmanding

Officer, Western Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 515, U.S. Army.

1.	In the case of Private MARSHALL K. HARRIS (6153269), Company A, 37th Replacement Battalion, 10th Replacement Depot, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5(>2 you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to

' this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1036. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1036).

Assistant Judge Advocate General.

#(301)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD QF REVIEW ETO 1042 -UNITED STATES j

)

Private LEO L. COLLETTE	!

(31026439), 1686th Ordnance J Supply and Uaintenance	J

Company (Aviation), 2d	)

Bombardment Division.	)

27 JAN 1944

VIII BO&BBR COMMAND

Trial by G.C.M., convened at US AAF Station # 104, APO 634, 25 October 1943. Sentence: Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for six months. 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U. S. ARUT.

OPINION by the BOARD CP REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge cf said Branch Office.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:

CHARGE: Violation of the 94th Article of War.

Specification:	In	that	Private	Leo L. Collette,

1686th Ordnance Supply and Uaintenance Co.

(Avn) Headquarters, AAF-123,' for the purpose of obtaining approval, allowance and payment of a family allowance under the Servicemen's Dependents Allowance Act of 1942, did, at Headquarters, AAF-595, on or about 12 October 1942, execute and present a certain writing which the said Leo L. Collette, as he, the said Leo L. Collette, then knew, contained a statement that Barbara Ann Collette was his child, which statement was false and fraudulent in that the said Leo L. Collette had no child or children, and was then known by the said Leo L. Collette to be false and fraudulent, and by reason cf said false and fraudulent representations did obtain money of the value of 9156.00 from the United States Government.

- 1 -

..CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(302)

He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced.

He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for three years. The reviewing authority approved only so much of the sentence as provided for dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due and confinement at hard labor for six months, suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement, and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U.S.

Army, as the place of confinement.	,

The result of the trial wan promulgated in General Court-Martial Orders No. 75, Headquarters VIII Bomber Command, APO 634 dated 16 November 1943.

3.	For the purpose of consideration of the issue involved in the case, the pertinent evidence for the prosecution may be summarized briefly as follows:

On 12 October 1942, at APO 635, New York, New York, accused executed a sworn application for family allowances under the Servicemen's Dependency Allowance Act of 1942 (Vf.D., A.G.O. Form No.625) listing as Class A dependents his wife, Geraldine Thelma Collette, and a child, Barbara Ann Collette, who was stated therein to be residing at his wife's address, and to have been born 6 March 1942. The application was made for family allowances "Commencing June 1942" and contained the further statement that the marriage of accused and his wife occurred 9 December 1941. It was requested therein that checks be made payable to his wife (Stip.R5a; Pros.Ex.1.)

After accused had been properly warned of his rights and had read all the documents in the case, Including Pros. Ex.l, he made the following signed statement to the officer Investigating the charges:

"1. I, Private Leo Lawrence Collette, 31026439, did on 12 October, 1942 apply for family allowances for one child, Barbara Ann Collette, who did not exist. I knew this to be a false claim in that I had no children and wish to make arrangements to pay the money owed the United States government which I have received by reason of this claim.

2. I further affirm that the Documentary Evidence contained in this file was presented to me for my approval and that such evidence is in conformity with the facts.

Leo Lawrence Collette /s/Leo Lawrence Collette

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

(R8-9)
CONFIDENTIAL

.... .......................................... .	(303)

4.	At the close of the case for the prosecution the defense moved for "a not guilty verdict" on the ground that the confession was unsupported by any other evidence, that the prosecution (failed

to prove) that accused had no child, nor had it submitted any evidence that there was an allotment, or that the allotment had actually been paid (Rll). The motion was denied by the court (R12).

5.	For the purposes of consideration of the merits of the case, it is deemed unnecessary to set forth the evidence introduced by the defense.

6.	Recalled as a witness by the court, Captain William J.

Bromley, Ordnance Department, accused's commanding officer was asked upon what information he had preferred the charges. The defense objected to his reply that "Captain Turley told me about the case", and the objection was sustained. He further testified that he had received the papers introduced in evidence from a former officer of the organization, had gone over the papers with the officer, and had talked with accused. Asked by a member of the court whether he was sure, when he preferred the charges, that accused did not have a child when he applied for the allotment, Captain Bromley testified in the affirmative. The member then asked the witness if he had assured himself by investigation and correspondence that accused did not have

a child when he applied for the allotment. The defense then entered an objection which was overruled but the question was unanswered (R15-16). This is all that the record discloses outside of the confession and application for allowances.

7.	The question presented for consideration is whether the prosecution presented sufficient evidence of the corpus delicti to corroborate and support the confession of accused.

"An accused can not be convicted legally upon his unsupported confession. A court may not consider the confession of an accused as evidence against him unless there be in the record other evidence. either direct or circumstantial, that the offense charged has probably been committed: in other words. there must be evidence of the corpus delicti other than the confession itself. * * * This evidence of the corpus delicti need not be sufficient of itself to convince beyond reasonable doubt that the offense charged has been committed, or to cover every element of the charge, or to connect the accused with the offense. Examples:	If	unlawful	homicide	is

charged, evidence of the death of the person alleged to have been killed coupled with evidence of circumstances indicating the probability that he was

3	-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(304)

"unlawfully killed will satisfy the rule and authorize consideration of the confession if otherwise admissible. In a case, of alleged larceny or in a case of alleged unlawful sale evidence that the property in question was missing under circumstances indicating in the first case that it.was probably stolen, and in the second case that it was probably unlawfully sold, would be a compliance with the rule." (1CM,1928, par.llAs, p.^(Underscoring supplied).

"The corpus delicti need not be proved aliunde the confession beyond a reasonable doubt, or by a preponderance of evidence, or at all, but Borne evidence corroborative of the confession must be produced, and such evidence must touch the corpus delicti. Where accused was charged with larceny of a riding crop from a post exchange and confessed the crime, the require- ' ments of this rule of law are met by evidence tending to show, though not absolutely proving, that the crop had been a part of the stock of the post exchange and had been wrongfully taken therefrom (CM 202213 (1934). Die.Ops.JAG.. 1912-1940, sec.395 (U)» p.208) (Underscoring supplied).

The principle enunciated in the foregoing case was reaffirmed in a recent case, CM 240329 (1943), Bui.JAG, Vol II, No.10, October 1943, see.395(ll)» P.377.

In CM 120063 (1918) it was held thatt

"The general rule in this country is that the corpus delicti cannot be established by the confession of the accused unsupported by corroborative evidence. Without such corroborative proof of the corpus delicti, the confession of the accused is inadmissible in evidence, but such corroborative proof need not be conclusive (Wharton1s Criminal Law.

Vol.I, par.357).	The testimony of another

soldier that he placed his money in a pocket in his shirt, put the shirt under his pillow, went to sleep on it, and in the morning the money was gone, together with the evidence that the cards and letters placed with the money were found on the foot of his, (accused^) locker, is sufficient corroborative evidence to establish the corpus delicti (Dig.0ps.JAG.,

1912-1940, par.395 (ll)» p.207) (Underscoring supplied).

- 4 •

p.nwnnrwmi
CONFIDENTIAL

(305)

It is alleged in substance that for the purpose of obtaining a family allowance under the Servicemen's Dependents Allowance Act of 1942y accused executed and presented a certain writing containing a statement that one Barbara Ann Collette was his child, which statement was known by accused to be false and fraudulent in that he had no child, and that by reason of such false representation he obtained $156 from the United States Government. The prosecution Introduced evidence that he did in fact execute a sworn application for family allowances on the date alleged, which contained among other things a statement that he had as class A dependents a wife and a child, Barbara Ann Collette, who was born 6 March 1942. The prosecution then introduced in evidence a confession by accused in which he Btated that on the date alleged he did apply for family allowances for one child, Barbara Ann Collette who did not exist, and that he knew it was a false claim in that he had no children. He further stated therein that he desired to make arrangements to repay the money received to the United States Government.

The prosecution utterly failed to produce any evidence of the corpus delicti to support and corroborate the confession of accused. Apart from the confession, no competent evidence whatsoever was introduced by the prosecution concerning the alleged falsity of accused's statement. or concerning his alleged knowledge that the statement was false and fraudulent. Also, aside from the vague statement in his confession concerning repayjtent there was no evidence that accused received the $156 alleged, or any other amount. The record of trial contains no other competent evidence "either direct or circumstantial, that the offense charged has probably been committed." "* * * some evidence corroborative of the confession must be produced, and such evidence must touch the corpus delicti." Hence, in the present case it is not a question of the evidence of the corpus delicti being legally insufficient in character to support and corroborate the confession of accused for there is no such evidence whatsoever. The mere Introduction in evidence of the application Itself wherein accused stated that one of his class A dependents was a child who was born 6 March 1942, cannot be deemed evidence of the corpus delicti.

The document appeared an its face to be true and genuine and the prosecution introduced no competent evidence other than the confession to show that the statement contained therein was false and fraudulent.

Accused's commanding officer, Captain Bromley, recalled as a witness by the court and questioned by a member thereof, testified that when he preferred the charges he was sure that accused did not have a child when he applied for.the allotment. The defense did not object to this question but did object when the witness was asked by the member whether he had assured himself by investigation and correspondence that accused did not have a child when he made the application. The objection was overruled, but the question was not answered.

y

An examination of his testimony shows that the witness '	'

conclusion was obviously based upon pure hearsay, and was manifestly "

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(306)

incompetent and inadmissible in evidence. There was no evidence in the record of trial of any competent factual basis for the conclusion. Since evidence was, moreover, elicited upon questioning by a member of the court on his own initiative. In view of the absence of any competent evidence whatsoever touching the corpus delicti which corroborated and supported the confession of accused, the admission of the conclusion was highly prejudicial to the substantial rights of accused and any failure to object to the admission of such testimony did not waive or cure its incompetency. (CM 211829, Parnell. diB. op. by King J.A., followed by the Secretary of War upon recommendation of The Judge Advocate General (Dig. Ops. JAG 1912-1940. par.395 (21), p.2l6)j CM 178446, Dig. Ops. JAG 1912-1940, par 395 (21), p.216; CM 238557, Bui. JAG. Vol.II, Ho.8, August 1943, par.419 (2),' pp.307-308; CM ETO 527 Astrella.)

8.	For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.	1

- 6 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(307)

let Ind.

TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOOSA. 27 JAN 1944 TOi Comaanding General, ETOOSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.

1. Herewith transmitted for your action tinder Article of War 50$- as amended ty the act of 20 August 1937 (50 Stat. 72A} 10 U.S.C., 1522) and as further amended by Public Law 693* 77th Congress, 1 August 1942, is the record of trial in the case of Private LEO L. COLLETTE (31026439), 1686th Ordnance Supply and Maintenance Company (Aviation), 2d Bombardment Division.

2. I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review, and for the reasons stated therein recommend that the findings of guilty and the sentence be vacated and that all rights, privileges and property of which accused may have been deprived by reason of such findings and sentence so vacated, be restored.

3. Inclosed is a form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is a draft GCMO for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the record of trial with required copies of GCMO,

3 Inclsi Incl.l Ind.2 Ind. 3

C. McNEIL,

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

Record of Trial Form of Action Draft GCMO

(Findings and sentence vacated. GCMD 6, ETO,- 4 Feb 1944)

nntinnFNTiM
/
#(309)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1044

UNITED STATES )

)

v.	)

)

Technical Sergeant GEORGE W. ) DUNGAN (15016970), 79th	)

Service Squadron, 327th	)

Service Group,	)

• 1	)

13 DEC 1943

VIII BOMBER COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M,, convened'at AAF Station 104, APO 634,' 4 November 1943. Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

HOLDING'by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by.the Board of Review.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:

CHARGE:	Violation of the 93rd Article of War.

Specification:	In	that	Technical	Sergeant	George

W. Dungan,79th Service Squadron, 327th Service Group, did, at Wymondham, Norfolk,

England, on or about 18 September 1943> with intent to commit a felony, viz, rape, commit an assault upon Beryl Kedge, a female child aged about eight years, by wilfully and feloniously pulling her knickers down, biting •her neck, placing his penis between her leg3 and attempting to have carnal knowledge of the said Beryl Kedge.

Accused had previously been tried on 4 October 1943 upon the same Charge and Specification before a general court-martial convened at AAF Statioiyand appointed by paragraph 2, Special Orders #205, Headquarters VlII Bomber Command, -APO 634, 26 August 1943 as amended. He was found guilty of the'Charge and Specification and sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service,to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

authority may direct for five years. On 19 October 1943 the reviewing authority disapproved the sentence.and ordered a rehearing before another court to be thereafter designated. On 21 October 1943 the case was referred for trial to the present general court-martial appointed by paragraph 1, Special Orders No. 248, Headquarters VIII Bomber Command,' APO 634, 9 October 1943 as amended.

He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for ten years. The reviewing authority, in order to conform with the sentence adjudged upon the first hearing a3 required by Artitle of War 5&2,' approved only so much of the sentence as provided for dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due, and confinement at hard labor for five years, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 5Of*

3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the-findings of-guilty, and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority.

4.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 28 years of age. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of assault with intent to commit rape (35 Stat. 1143; 18 USC, sec.455). As accused is under 31 years of age and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority is under ten years, the designation of the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio, is correct ('War Department Circular #291, 10 November 1943, sec.V,3a).	.	*•

Judge Advocate

Out	Judge	Advocate

Judge Advocate

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(311)

• 1st Ind.

TO, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 1 3 DEC 1943	T0.	Commanding

General, VIII Bomber Command, APO 634, U.S. Army.

1.	In the case of Technical Sergeant GEORGE W. DUNGAN (15016970), 79th Service Squadron, 327th Service Group, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to suppqrt the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50j, you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office, they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1044. ' For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 1044]

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

(313)

Ernoh Office of The Jude* Advocate General ' with the European Theater of Operations

AFO 871

BOARD 0? REVIEW f.TO 1052	:

V M I T I 9 • STATU	)

)

)

Private CHARLIE GKDBE53 (14110767),	)

Private JAWE3 H. LINDSEY(344l5299), )

Private FIRST CLA3S ALEXANDER SILIW ) (34325136), Private FREDDY BLAKE ) (36389972), private JAKES a. manning ) (36565865), private henry McKNIGHT ) (18062073), T/Sgt. HENRY AUSTIN ) (35290641), Private henry yr. TILLY ) (18023220), Private First Class ) CtIFFORL BARRETT (14111118), Private ) TOM ESPINO (3638986!), Private ABZIS )

martin (36565895), private Carl ) TENNYSON (15197367), Prlrete VIU.I3 ) GIBBS (36389998), Sgt. HUBERT S. ) HUGHES (36531927)* *11 Of 581st	)

Ordnsnsa laounltlon, Company .	)

i 2 FEB 1944

SOUTHERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES 01' SUPPLY, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Paignton, England, 15*17 October 1943. Sentences 1 Dishonorable - discharge, total forfeitures,end confinement at hard labor, - ' Gaddies, Lindsey, Shan, Blahs,, Manning, McKnight, Tilly*, Being, Martin, Tennyson and Gibbs, each for 15 years, • Austin, Barrett ' and Hughes, each for 20 yeara. United States Penitentiary, Levieburg, Pennsylvania.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEH and SARGENT, judge Advocate*

1,	The record of trial of the soldiers named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	The aeoueed were tried upon the following charges end spedfleetions 1

CHARGE I* Violation of the 89th Article of War.

Sposlfloatlorn* In that Private Charlie Gaddies, 581st Ordnsnsa Ammunition Company, Private James H.

Lindsey, 531et Ordnance Ammunition Company,

Private First Class Alex Shaw, 581st Ordnsnsa Ammunition Company, Private Freddy Blake, 581st Ordaaaos Ammunition Company, Privats Jamas Manning,

581st Ordnance Ammunition company, Rivets Henry ueXnlght, 581st Ordnance Ammunition Company,

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(3 U)

Technical Sergeant lienry	581at

Ordnance Ammunition Company, Private Henry Tilly* 581st Ordnance Annual ti on Company,

Private first Class Clifford Barrett, 561st Ordnance tesaitioa Company, Private Tsai Swing,

581st Ordnance Ammunition Company, Private Arsis Hart la, 561st Ordaaaaa Ammunition Cosy ay, Private Carl Teanyeoa, 561at Ordaaaaa Anatnitlea Company, Private in 111a c&bba, 561at Ordnance Aanmaitioa Company, and sergeant Rupert Hughes, 581st Ordnance Ammunition Company, being la g&rriaoa and camp at Camp Ibnnygillum, Dapot 0-666,

Xaunce atop .England, did, at Camp Pbnnyglllme,

Dapot 0-666, Lsuueastoa, England, sal vicinity, oa or about 26 September 1943, earns! t a riot, la that they, together with sartaln other soldiers of aa unkaoiAjyg^r^^diaso names ara nakaowe, did, wrongfully, /and riotously, sad la a violent sad tumultuous meaner, assemble to disturb tbs pass* of Camp Feaayglllum, Dapot 0-666, asd Lauaeastoa, England and vicinity, and having so assembled, did wrongfully, unlawfully sad riotously asd is a violent sad tumultuous manner, bear arms, disregard lawful authority sad their superior off leers, marsh from their quarters at Camp Pennygi Hum to the aaatar of the tow of -Launceston.sagland; defy military authority shd local civil authority aad unlawfully asd riotously asaaalt Sergeant Charles J, Cos sad Sargaaat Ralph C* Simmons both of tho 115th Infantry by ahoatlig tho said Sargaaat Charles I. Cox a&d Sargaaat Ralph

0.	aimmoaa, oa asd about their bodies with dangerous weapons, to wit, rifles, carbines. Tommy Qua* asd other guns, aad did unlawfully sad riotously shoot at other people ml this the vicinity of the market square, Launceston, Ragland, whose asass are uakaove, with guas, to the terror asd disturbance of the said samp aad Tisialty sad the people therein.

CHAR® III Violation of the 93rd Art isle of War.

Specification li m that	anting	Jointly, aad

in the purwuaaee of a womans latent, did# at Lama-sestoa, Ragland, on or about 26 September 1943 in conjunction with certain other cold!ere, whose names are waknomi, with latent to commit a felony, tin,

' murder, commit aa assault upon Sergeant Charles J, Cox, 2nd Battalion, 115th Infantry by wilfully aad feloniously shooting tbs said Sergeant Charles I,

Cox an the body with dangerous weapons, via, rifles, carbines end Tsmwy Quae,	«

- a -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENT!;.'

(315)

Spool fleet ion 21 Zb that •••••• art lag Jointly,

and in the pareuanee of eosaeon intent, did, at Launeeatoa, England, on or about 26 September 1943* lo aonjunotion with certain other soldiers, whoaa names ara unknown, with intant to ooaoit a felony, via, murder, ecmalt an assault «pon Sargaact Ralph C, Simnone, Coopany 5, 115th Infantry* by wilfully and falonionaly shooting tha aald Sergeaat Ralph C. simoBfl, Company E, 115th Infantry on tha body with dangerous weapons, to wit, rifles, oarbinaa and Towny Quna,

CHAFGS Hit Violation of tha 96th irtiola of mar.

Spoolft eation1 In that • • • * * • eating Jointly and in pursuance of a enwann Intent, did at Camp IWttBygillun, Launceston, England, and vleiaity, on or about 26 September 1943• 1° coajuaetioa with eorialn othar aoldlara, whoaa names ara unknown, wrongfully and unlawfully aaiao araa and —ainl tloa, boar arua, Intantlonally discharge flrw araa In a reekleaa and unlawful wanner, naka lnflawaatory statements in tha praaanoa of othar aoldlara, narah fron their swap, at Caap Pennygl 11 un to tha aantar of the town of Launceston, England, fire upon members of tha military poliee, 03 Aemr **d other peraoae.

;V

ADDITIONAL CHEWS 1 Tioletlon of tha 66th Artlala of war

Spaelfication 1»	(finding of Rrt Quilt7).

Spoolfi nation 2$ m that ****** anting Jointly, and in purenanee of n aaawan latest, did, at Camp Penny-gill um, Lannaaaton, England, and Tialnity, an or about 26th September, 1943, voluntarily join in a mutiny, whleh bad begun in Caap Peanygllltim, England, and -▼ialnity, against tha lawful Military authority of tha remanding Of fleer of said station and othar offloara of said at at ion, and, did, with tha Intant to usurp subrart end orwr-rlda aald lawful military authority for tha tiao being, in eomaert with sundry other waabara of tha said 5®1** Ordnanaa Aaaanitlon colony, assembled at varioun pleoea la said station and Tialnity, wrongfully and nnlawfally seise erma and amaanitiea from said station, bear arms, naka inflammatory at at amenta in the praaanoa of ether soldiers, disregard and ignore tha lawful orders of tbsir superior offloara by proseeding to the town of Launeeston, England, and tbore did usurp, subvert and over-ride for tbs tine being, lawful military authority.

- 3 •

confidential
CONFIDENTIAL



(316)

Sack of the accused ploadad not guilty to all tbs charges wad specifications* Qeddiea, Lindsay, 3haw» Blake, McKnight, Austin, Barrett, tewing, Martin, Tennyson, Gibbs and Hughes wore each, found guilty of all charges and specifications ozoapt Specification 1 of ths Additional Charge.

Vanning and Tilly wore each found guilty of all chargea and specifications ozoapt tho Additional Charge and ita two rpceifloations.	Kb evidence of

previous convictions woo introduced against Coddles* Lindsey* Shaw* Blake* Austin* Tilly* Clbts or Hughes. Evidence was introduced of three prerioue eoavlotiona of Vanning, one for abaenoo without leave for tan days* one for failure to return to his place of duty and one for breaking restrictions end absenee without leave for one day) of two prerioue convictions of UeKBlgbt* one for absence free poet end duty without being properly relieved and one for escape from confinement and absenee without leers for slz days) of two prerioue oonvietlone of Barrett* one for absence without leers for 19 days and one for wrongfully taking and flourishing a pistol in en attempt to escape arrest 1 of one prerioue eonviotion of Swing for absence without leers for tan days# of one prerioue eonriction of Martin for absenee without leave for 17 days* and of two previous convictions of Tennyson* oas for insubordination and dlarsspectful language to a non-eamsiealoned officer in ezeeutlon of his office end one for absenee without leave for seven days*

Laeh sccumd was sentenced to he dishonorably discharged the service* to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hardlabor a^ such place as the reviewing authority nay direct* • Geddied, Lindsey* Chaw, BlBke, Manning, McKnight, Tilly, Ewl£g( Martin, Tension and Citbs, each for 15 yearaj and Austin* Barrett end Hughes, each for 20 years* The reviewing authority approved each of the sentences, designated the Baited States Penitentiary* Lewisburg, Pennsylvania* as the place of eonfinenent and forwarded the record of trial for action under Article of war

3* The evidence shows that all accused belonged to a eonpany of colored soldiers* numbering approximately 176 aen node up of two groups) the first mostly southerners voluntesrwd for service in 1942 front the enlisted reserve corps* the other group, consisting of replacements, sane from the northern said eastern parte of tho United States (R4&), Sines 21 September 1943 tho ' company had boon staticRed at Caanp Pennygillum located about three-quarters of a ails frost the center of Letuneeston* Devonshire, England (R50) and on tha outer edge of the residential section of the town (B107)* The ooa^any had been restricted In the United States prior to eoaing overseas) four days at their boas station* three weeks at Caup Patrick Henry* end ever sines it had arrived in England (R108)* Zt left Camp Patrick Henry on 8 September (Bill)* Be aaa ef the company had a blouse but la spite of this fast the nan had beea going down town during the evenings wearing overcoats, Bash nan had been issued s rifle or carbine (B109), but no aen had beea issued v any eaauaition. Although it was know as an ammunition company, this company had none (Kill).

About seven o'clock on the evening of 26 September 1943 rumor circulated through eamp that 25 per sent of the company might go to tow.

Tho First Sergeant wrote slips of paper for certain of the aen to take to a Lieutenant Songy whs before signing the passes required the aen to reaaro

- 4-

.■’NFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(317)

their or*reoats and than eaii i*’I'm aorry but you oaa't go to town If you don't Lavs a blouee'’•	A number of tbs man, notwithstanding tbs

refusal of passes, decided to go to town and departed from eamp. Tbsss soldiere, including many of ths accused entered a public bouse where they found a "gang of whlta soldiers sitting at a table* one of whom soldi •That way out'** Tbe colored soldiers paid no attention, but ths barman required them to go In another room to be served telling them the first room was crowded* After being served they went to another public house, and after a period, the accused, Barrett sailed them outside and asked if they would ell 'stick together*. They ell answered *Yee*« At Barrett's suggestion they returned to camp for their eras end ammunition. Barrett procured n 'tommy-gun”, Accused Austin end others passed out amuinltion (course of supply not disoloood). They loaded their guns, and then returned to town (£78490), In the town square by a monument at about 10,20 p»m«

(JRlO), these soldiers discovered a jeep and soma American military police soldiare standing by it. It was dark (£41), There were aleo soas British Lend Army girls and others in the square waiting for buaoS. One of the group of eoldiere asked the Military lollos "rhy didn't they went us up in town**. Someone else sailed out "Hands up'* and just then firing started from rifles and from Barrett's "tommy-gun* (£78,93), The crowd of colored eoldiere was estimated at between 16 and 50 (£15,21,29,99), The shots seamed to come in a volley,followed by e couple of single shots and then another volley (£14), Tbe group then disintegrated and left the square by several streets. Two military policeman, Sergeants Charlie Cox and Ralph Simons (R12), were abet and seriously wounded.

4* The prosecution.'b witnesses particularised the events of the evening as follows!

(a)	- Captain Richard P. Scott, headquartera Company, 115th Infantry, 29th Division, was Battalion Military Police Officer xn Launceston the night of Sunday, 26 Soptembor 1943* A* earns out on the square after checking a "pub* shortly after 10 p,a* be heard e shuffling of feet coming into the square. as he started to pees the group he noticed it spread out in a eemi-circle "with ths monument and the military police on the open side of the seml-elrelo", Someone shone n flashlight serosa the group as a shot wee fired, and ha saw a colored soldier in long coat not over three feet away firing a rifle* Thera was considerable commotion end someone was moaning and eereaaing. Several girls ware running la separate directions and were •creaming. The group 'kept fanning out*, the firing diminished and then increased In volume. The group finally broke end disappeared (£10-11),

Be 'phoned camp for n doctor and found hia two sergeants who had been wounded (K12)« There bed been no previous trouble that night between the oolored end the white soldier* but on the previous night there had been n alight incident (Rid).

(b)	- Sergeant tfeilaoa. Company 0, 115th Infantry, was also on police duty in Launceston the night of 26 Goptembor 1943* The military police were standing by their jeep when about 10il5 p.m, they heard the sound Of marching foot. A crowd appeared and 'more or loss formed a circle around me*. Soma roles ashed I "why don't you hoys want us hare in town?*. a flash-

• 5

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(318)

light ms turned-on ths military polls* who started to beck up and rilM their buds* Tbu • shot was find and ths polios scattered sod sons foil to tbs ground. Tboro wore two dl sliest volleys - one son* from tbo edge of tbo square u tbo orowd tu leering (R19-20)*

(•) Staff sergeant ftttockl, Heed quarters Company, 2nd Battalion* 115tb Infantry* • room-mate of Sergeant Cox* ni la Launceston* aot on duty* tbo night of 26 September 1943* About 10 o'clock la tbo evening bo went to tbo square to *0* Cox before returning to esanp and while standing by tbo military polleo jeep* talking to Cox* Sergeut Nell son and Prirato Raeey* a trirsr, ha * beard a bit of shuffling* and there mail to be a orowd approaching (R2$)* A colored mi (R26) seemed to bo tbo spoke sou for tbo group* and bo aald* vary quietly* 'tty don't you 1st us eons Into town* 00m to tbo jwbst* and than ba stepped bask* just then the fixing started* There was considerable fixing - then a lull - than It ooamnaod again (R25). Mora than 20 shots uro fixed (R2&). Potoeki ran to a phone, sailed camp and asked for help and Medical assistance (R25),

(d)	Prirate first Clue Fred y* Raeey* 2nd Battslion* Headquarters CoMpeny* 115th Infantry* was a jeep drieer for Captain Soott and wu standlx* by the Jeep talking with four or fire of tbo Military police when a 'group of guys* walked up to than* Samsons turned a light on and he saw they wars colored Man* One of than walked up to Sergeant Cox and said something Raeey did aot hear* Thu he beard bolts open an riflae and a shot wan fired* He to tbo monument and lay down until it again became quiet* There appeared to bo about $5 •* 30 colored mu ia the group* Ho later found bullet boles la ths two roar tiros of bis Jeep (B29-3I).

(o)	Tom Ooaoet, of tbo white Hart Hotel* located on the square la Launotston* heard the shooting about IO1I5 on tho night of 26 September 1943* A colored soldier ease in with knives and waved them about* There Mrs only resident# In tho hotel* Thu two noro soldiers came in* One had a rifle under hie seat* Oosaet sue seeded in getting then out and bolting tho door (R32)* There ware at least 20 shots fired* seemingly la n elrale (R33).

(f)	George Robinson* on whose farm Camp FeanygHlum ia located, ftouai a rifle on 2 October 1943* wrapped in a raincoat burled la the strew on his farm (R 35-3*0•

(g)	Sergeut Ralph C* Simmons. Company X* 115th Infantry, wu on

polls# duty in launsoatoa ths night of 2b September 1943* •“* wu standing by a Jeep listening to Sergeant Brtoekl* Ha saw a orowd gathering* walked towards it, and when about 8 or 10 foot away, ho hoard someone say 'And M don't like it**	Ho looked to the side, and sew some colored mu with guts

pointed at him*	Ha started hack to tho Jeep. Homo shots were fired*

hitting him in both legs. than ths firing ceased he wu taken to tho aid station, and then to tho hospital with Sergeut Cox who had alee bon wounded (R38-40).

- 6 •

CONFIDENTIAL
(1) Corpora!. Alfred Joaepb, 58l*t Ordnanoe Jteaaaitioa Cowg>*ny» stationed at Canp Fenayglllua, Launceston, on the sight of 26 September 1943 west to to** •ATOL*. Ha had a*T*ral drinks la a *pub» with two British soldiwra who, *h*a tha publla houas slosad, asconpaalad hi* la order to she* hi* tha way to aaop* Oa tha way* thajr test a gang of boy* *o*iag froa agr sanp*. Ha asked whara thajr war* going a« ararythlag was closed* but haft a* ? reply aad thajr passed by. Ho oallad oa* of tha* by aaao aad was told aot to sail hi* a*a*« oo ho turned about aad waited bohlad tha group to ao* •share thajr was going* • They cans to a four-aornar street aad h* heard aoaebodjr try outi *sa will fix you* to sosa military polls*, oa* of who* was standing by a parted Jaap.

I

•So I asltad hi* teat was tha trauhla. aad ho told m ha dlda*t teow# aad teaa thajr said that Z kaav It «u flzlag up a fight» I said 'Can't *a gat along? What's tha aattar?' hit thaa aaasate la th* srowd hollaredi 'Pat «p your hands'* Th* U.P. turaad with his haads up* sad that Is who* thajr started teoatlng.*
(h) Captain Robert C. Cess, 115th station Hospital, was on duty the might of 26 September 1943 when two emergency patients, Cox and Simmons, sere brought In about 11 pau Their sounds oara bandaged (R42).

(I)	Major Raymond I* Mulrenale, 115 th Station Hospital, took aara of Mami on the night of 26-2? September 1943 at about 12i30 a*au fia bad lacerations la both lags from fragments of bullats uhlah aara removed.

Ilia injuries aara sansad by gunshot sounds (R4J).

(J)	Captain D, Luthermend, Medical Corps, 115th station Hospital, operated os Oox, an emergency patlant on the night of 26 September 1943* Ha had a compound fraeture of the left fenur and an extensive operation aas done on his left hip end thigh region, Ha was given n blood transfusion and a east aas applied to both loser extremities, Es sas still seriously ill and would probably remain a hospital patisnt for at least four to six months. It appeared to be a gunshot sound mod in ths Captain's opinion, there sould be at laaat an inch shortening ef the left loser leg (R44a>45)»

(k) Captain Janes Boston, Ordnsao# Department, Camp PsnsygUlun, Launceston, identified each accused as a member of the 5&lst Ordnamoe Ccmpaay9 colored, of which ho was commanding officer (R4&-5°)» He sas on temporary datached duty on 26 September 1943* The company arrived at tbs samp loeated about three-fourths of s mile from the tenter of Launceston, on 21 September 1943 *od bed been restricted to eaap to sad including 26 September, because they did not have proper uniforms and had not been oriented (R1C7*108),
This was about IO13O pat* or later* There ware 15 or 20 men or sort Is tbo group among whom nr* Blaaehett end aeausad Hughes* Shaw* and Bsrrett* Barrett had a two»haadled gas asd had it "os tha H.P'11 asd •tartad chootlag whas somebody saidi Tut up your hands** Tha nas had os oraraoats or ralsspats (H71-75)*

(m) Private Tirat Class L. V. Edvards* 581st Ordaaaaa irnuunitioa Company* was statiosad at Fcnnygillttm os 26 September 1943* Ha asd othars wars told they aould go to tows that evening but passas aara rafusad Asm It was dlsootsrad thay bed no blouses* IS spits of such refusal a group of thaa want into tows* Thay want to a "pub" end drank sow aider* Edwards saw aoausad Barrett standing up os a bosah talking* but it was so crowded and solar he aould sot hear him* Barrett thaa ease orar and asked Edwards, Blaaohett* Steele* Cains* tha aseased Hughes* Coddles, Shew and dustis to go outside Aero he asked them if they all would * stick with him** They said Tea* (H78)* Someone asked him what was tha matter and ha replied *Tbu*ll find out « come en*(Bfi4)« fie looked angry (R®5)* They all returned to eaap 'and gets out our ear bines and ha gate this temuy-gan* and Sergeant Austin oomes round and pas sod sot tha amasitlos and we goes on bask to town*» Barrett told tka to got their turbines out of their testa and then all to assemble bask there is the road* Assembled is the road among others lseludlsg Edwards* were as eased &ghes* Barrett* Lindsey* Ewing, Blake, Shew* Sennyaos and Glbba. dll had guns exeept Tennyson and Gaddies who had bayonets (R79*83). Barrett had them march ia threes* rhan they reaehed tows* *soaw M.P’a wars standing thara asousd some jaaps* and Joseph askad Ay thay did sot want As colored *bsys* up tows. Barrett told thesi * Hands up* and opened fire with his anohlns-gas and *1 started running** Edwards finally gpt back to samp (K7&»79)* He also aaw Austin flra* Thay wars ■•booting st tha M.Po**(RS3), Then aoadng from port Sill to Camp Petriek Henry luatls asked Edwards if ha had his A ga> mask* Edwards dissevered hs had Barrett '• mask* by mistake. Austin told him to *gat Clifford Barrett** Thaa Edwards opened the gas mask hs found aerblse awramltloa in it* Bs took it to Bsrratt* sad informed him of his find* Barrett grabbed Edwards by the sellar and produelag s long knife threatened to ant Edwards' *head off* if ho said anything about it (ESI)*

(s) Private Albert SmlA* 5&l*t Ordaenee Ammunition Company* was stationed 26 September 1943 is the snap sear Lauaeestoa* It was dark whan soma of the men who had goae to Ou returned to as*p and ha hoard thorn talking* Austin passsd out seas amnitioa sad it looked aa if tha Asia aompaay earns out as tha street and started eff ta tom* Smith fallowed behind them* When the group reaehed the Teas Ball thara was a bunch of mad standing up os tha sonar uham ha aould see by asms lights from a Jaap er truek* Ha heard Barrett say something and tha soldiers started ta shoot. Barrett mad Austin had guns* Than they started to run* Smith and Blasohatt sought up with Coddles* who was roaming ahead ef them* Barrett* Austin* Tasaysos asd Gibbs wars is tha eoupsny street bafsra tha f^eup left for team* Tilly went A A tha great aad was ahead af attt, ttaShight passed SalA* Ao reeogsised him only by his wolee as ha urns aiming* Mitt desled Am os tha stand Ant ha had a rifle though in hie statement previously given*he said ha had ♦ms guns (192-91)*
CONFIDENTIAL

(321)

(o)	Staff Sergeant Kenneth Blanehett,	Ordnance	Imnb1<

tin Compelqr, ea 26 September 1943# «u among those to 14 by hie fir at sergeant that ha could go to ton that might, but warn refused a paaa ah am it vaa found that ha had no hlauaa. saa of tha aoldiara aant to ton anyhow, aad had drinks la tao paha.	Blamehatt	ama	praaamt	ah am	Barratt

aallad certain aoldiara outside of tha public house aad aahad thaai to*stick together*, and aaid**Lata go haah aad gat our anaa and amnudtioa'*.

Blaaohatt went along, got hia gam aad returned with than t£y*menument*

la team aad warn praaamt at tha areata thara eeourriag, and durli^ tha sub-aafaaat shooting.	Scam 16 or 18 war# la tha croud that raturoad to ton*

including himself, Edwards, Smith, Oaiaa aad tha aoauaad Austin, Hughes, Barratt, Shaw, Oaddiaa, Lindsey, Ewing, Blake, Gibbs, Manning and Martin,

All had guns except Joaaph and Geddiee whom they mat while going beak to tewa{»95-102).

/

(p)	. First Lieutenant K. Cohn, Company D, 49th Quartargenter Beginent, Camp Pennygillua, wan awakaaad ia tha of f i earn' quarter a of tha samp about 11*10 the night of 26 September and informed that thara wan trouble in town. It waa quiet when ha reached town and after 20 minutaa be returned to eanp aad ran put on guard over tha man they ware *piekiag up*. Tha next morning about ?«20, about two bloakn from eaap, ha mat and apprehended ac euned Lindany, who aald ha had bean lent aad waa on his any beak to tha battalion area. Ea had a rifle under hia eoat which waa buttoned around it and alao a bayonet and nix rounds of annualtion (Rll2-113).

(q)	Saaoad Llautaaaat Ariel I. Clean, Camp Pennygillua, wan alao aallad- out of bad about 10*30 or 11*00 tha night of 26 September because of a report that thara had baaa shooting going on ia town. Ea want to town mad learned/'it was our troops that war* mixed up ia tha shooting*. Ea returned to earn? and made a bad ehnnk. your man, Albert Smith, Charlie Oaddiaa, Tom Ewing aad Jaaoe Lindsay ware missing from tha seatioa of tho company which ha checked. Ha found Ewing about midnight near a guard poet. Ewing said ha vaa just out far a walk, A loaded rifle waa foumd leaning up against tha guard post. Tha next moralng Barratt, ihighee and several others reported to hare bean in this Incident ware taken into custody (R114-U5).

(r)	First Lieutenant Francis H. Blaadgrea, 564th Ordnance Ammunition Company, damp Faanygilltta, waa afteuaed from bod by tha Officer af tha Day, about 11 o'slssk tha night of 26 September 1943* *nd notified that there had been soma shooting in torn*. Ha helped make a bad ebeek of tho 5&st Company and some men ware found to be missing. About 2 o 'clock that morning on tha road outside of eamp ha took Blanehett, Smith aad Oaddiaa into custody. Ho was present wham Swing and hia rifle ware found tha next morning (BU7-118).

(a) Henry C. Bto liras, Investigation Department, fewest Marahal Oeaaral'e Dataahmant, after first informing them of their rights in connection therewith, on 27 September 1943* questioned and ascured a slated statement

- * -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(322)

from sash of oeeussd Ewing (1(53) £Sii£U!£a* Bu^ws (1(55) Pro».E»,*P*« Berrstt (J(57) S£EiStISe» and Csddiss (E59)* lw*.E>.*r. uhieh wor* oooli admitted and rood to tbo court oo owidoaoo paly against the individual nuking tbo respective atatsm*at{F53).

(t) sorgooot Marvin r. Hi chord won, investigation Department, Provost Marshal General's Detachment, oftor first informing thorn of tboir rights in connsction therewith, questioned sad soourod o signed statement from accused Shaw on 29 September 1943* Pros, Ex,*0' (R&2), from accused Blaks and Teuay-soa on 27 September 1943, Pro».Kx.»H* (R64) aud Pros.fix.■I* (B&5) respectively, from accused Lindsay os 29 September 1943, Pros.*1*,* ?• (R<>7) sad from aoousod Martin on 29 September 1943* Pros.Ex. *K* (1*9). These statements were admitted and road to the court as evidence only against the maker of the particular statement (H&2),

5* Stipulations identifying accused Hughes, Shaw, Hanning* Austin, Tilly and Ewing with their correct serial nuabera and carious spellings of their names were mads in open court (R119-121).

6, The evidence for the defendants in substance warn

*

(a)	Sergeant Charles V. Bury, Company *7*, 115 Infantry, wan

on *M.P.* duty in Lnunacston th* night of Saturday, 25 September 1943*	'

•A nob of 18 colored fellows end five English soldiers* seme in the seat Cots Inn shout 9 o’clock and the barman refused to call thorn drinks, then they walked la a couple of shits American soldiers got up and walked out and about four of five others Stood up and remained standing up until they left. Tire colored soldiers walked in to the dance in the Launceston Town Hall that night and the Lieutenant asked them for their passes (Hi27). The orders were that no colored soldiers wars to be out of camp an they wars all confined. Tbs military police had orders *to chase any of .thorn bask to camp*. They were all eheaked as ooon as seen and told *the boat thing they could do was hop bask to easq? before they got themselves into trouble*.	The five men at the danse could produce no passes and were told

to leave.	The military police officer got them their money bask and gave

it to than but they took their own time in leaving. One kept shouting and said * ’if you touch ms I will give you what I got in my pocket1 *. hen told they had better get on up tbs road before it was necessary to log*, thorn up, this same one said *'?o will get even with you, you wait and see* ,

Two English Royal Engineers started •hutting in and said ws was picking on them muL ws told them they had better keep out of it'(R12S-129),

(b)	Captain Tames E. Stevenson, Assistant Inspector General, Headquarters, Southern Bass section, identified Def.SX,! as the statement mode to him os investigating officer by accused Austin i Def.Ex.2 ns a abatement similarly mode by aeeuaed Hughest end Def.Kx.1 as a statement similarly mods by accused Lindsay, Tennyson and Hughes each wars sworn as witnesses for tbo oole purpose of showing method of signing those statements. Each admitted signing them but denied being sworn.The three

- 10 -

'••iFIDEHTlAl
CONFIDENTIAL

(323)

Statameata were resd to the eourt and admitted ia evidence (R122-125).

(•) Frirati Jaaea L. Galnea, 581at prdaanca jwudUot Company, stated tbs outfit ease to England about a seek before 26 September 1943*

All matters had beea re at rioted beginning a math or sne before they left the United States* No one la the eampany had a blouoe so they eould not gp to torn and there was nothing speelal la their area they eould do la their tins off duty (R1J0).

(d)	Sergeant Herrin F. Richardson was recalled as a defease wit* seas and Identified Def.Lx.4 ea the stetemnt of accused Tilly,, and Lof*

Ex* 5 as the statement of accused MoKnight made 30 September 1943 which

statements ears admitted ea eridense and read to the eourt(Ri3i).

/

(e)	Sergeant Barry C* Poltras was recalled aa a defense witness and identified Eef*Ex«6 ea tha atataaant of accused Manning taken 30 September 1943 and Dsf«Ex*7 as tha statement of accused Gibbs taken on emus day* both after due warning as to their rights whleh at at aments were admitted in ewideaee end reed to the court (KI32),

7* The evidence indicates that at least 1G soldiers were In the group who oomitted some or all of the offenses charged» - that is, the 14 aoeuecd and Private Albert Smith, Private First Claes L.V.Edwards, Corporal Alfred Jtoeeph aiid Staff Sergeant Kenneth Blanehett, all of the 521st Ordnance Aasunltlon Company. The lest four named were not charged herein with any offense but appeared as witnesses for the prosecution.

8.	The pertinent evidenoc as to each accused herein appears as follows!

(s)	CEISDIESI Edwards says Gaddies was with those in the "pub* dm were called outaids by Barrett end asked by him if they would "ell stick with his*| «fco said 'yea* and who returned to samp, got their carbines, received tha ammunition end returned to town where the shootlz^ occurred (K7S, 87), Caddies had s bayonet (R83). Smith says Caddies was in a group ahsad of his running away fro* the scene of the shooting (R90). Blanehett says Gaddies was in tha group who first want to town after being refused passes, returned to samp, got their arms aad returned to tom (£99)* Lieutenant Clean found Caddies sisal ng at 11 p*s* at bed cheek (R114; and be was arrested by Lieutenant Blondarcn ia the road near camp about 2 s.s. the next morning (R118), Gaddies, in his signed statement, admits hie full participation (Pros.Ex*).

(b) LINDSEY1 Edwards says Lindeey was in the group at camp to whoa the emaunition was passed out (K79)» Blanehett says Lindeey was in the group which was active through the satire disturbance (F99,1C2.105). Lieutenant Cleon says Lindsay was missing at s bad aback at 11 p*s* (Bilk) and ha was arrested about 7*20 a .a. tha next aaraing with a rifle under hie •oat, by Lieutenant Cohn (R112-U3). Ia his statement, Prps.Ex."J« Lindsey admits golnt to tom with his rills, bayonet and six rounds of amunition*

- U -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

I* his ittfanti pof,B»«3 ha claims that about 10 p*au someone came la* took hla rifle fro* the door of hia tent, and that ho shooed end sought hi* Juat aa tho firing started* hot that ho ooi^Uth that crowd end Aid art fix* hi# gua*

(o) 3SAW» Joseph soya Shaw woo with tho crowd doing tho ehootiag (H72)» Edwards says Shaw waa la tho •pub* boforo tho Barrett talk aad waa with thoao who received tho amataitioa at temp (R7&*79). Bloachott oajrs Shaw waa one of thoao who agreed to return to tho plaoo ia tho rood with a gua and that ho loft soap with thoao who roturaod to towa and did tho shooting (R102-105).	Accused Toanyaoa eays bo and Shaw woro lying behlaA

tho Moauaont ia tho public square during tho ahooting and that bullet a paaaot ©Tor their beads** Ha aaw Shaw while behind tho monument givo hio gua to aa *M.P.* (R134-1395. Shaw la hla statement* Proa.£x.,0». adaita hla participation including hie prosecco at tho ebooting and tho foot that hio gua waa takea by a military policeman.

(t)	BLAKE i Edwards says Blake waa proaoat when Austin paaaot out tho aeaunitloa (H7?)• Blaaohott coys Blake waa among thoao who proalood to return to tho mooting piece ia tho rood la five minutea (R1C2) and did return with a gun under hla «tt (R103). Tenaraoa aaya he thought ho eew Blake la towa (B13&). Bioko* ia hio etetameat* Proo.E*.»H». soya ho got his bayonet and put it la his pocket end then found tho root of thami that they went down towa together 'looking for It.Fa to piek a fight with** The firing started and ha raa back to emop by himeelf.

(a) HA>SvDO» Blanchott .aaya Manning waa ia tho group that sight aad waa oaa of those who agreed to return la fiwo minutes for tho trip to tom (R101-1C2), ud woo la tho group whoa it loft tho eaap(RlQ5)* Tonarooa says ho thought ho saw Manning la towa that sight but waa not positive (fa.36,139). Oibbo says ho borrowed Manning's tie, top end blouse aa Banning could sot gat a peea(Rl44). Banning* la his statement, ref. Bui, aaya ha roturaod fro* his duties at 1730 hours aad stayed ia eamp the rest of tha evening, going to bad about 23OO hours*

(f)	MoZHIOHTi Smith aaya MeXnlght paaaad hi* singing. 'Thata haw X knew who it was*(B9l)* Bleaehett aaya ha did not see Mcknight ia tha group (R102). Tonareoa la poaitiwo ha aaw UeXnlght ia tom that sight (RI33)) ha met Me Knight la front of tha tom hall whaa ha turaad ta go bask to temp after the sbootlag waa overt ho waa talking to a couple of girls la company with Austin (<13>135).	Xa hio statement, Dof.Kx.3. MaKnight aaya

ha want to bad at 6*45 the evening of 24 September 1943 *®d first learned of tha shooting at mas tha next moraiag*

(f) ATOrrpr» Edwards aaya Metis was ia tha *pub* whaa Barrett waa talking 1soldo (R7S)l that roturalag to comp* Anatin distributed the ammunition to thoao who thereafter retamod to tom (S78-7?) md that ho tow Austin fire hla gua ftnriag tha sbootlag la tom (R80*83)* It ma Auatia who eailed Sdwarda* attention to the fact that ha had Bsrrott'e gas mask at tha time sdwarda found some ■■multi it stored la It while tho detachment was am routs (M Fart Sill to Caaq> Patrick Henry (RBI)* jSmlth says Auatia

• il •

1 nMENTlAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(325)

was la the group Just before they went to town (Ivjl), cal that ha paswl out the oaouaition axil he saw hia with a tessgr-gaa (RJ2)« than tha ammunition waa Alatrlbutal ha also acv Austin end Barratt talking of *wfcat they mere going to do aftar they got up in town*(K?4). Blaschett tee- , tiflaA similarly about Austin (R98-99, 101-102)# and says Austin was tha last to come bask wbaa they assembled in tha road at snap to return to town# and ha is sura Austin had a aarbina under hla cost (RI03)* Tanayaon hoard Austin tall everybody to gat thair guns (R135,137).	After tha

shooting ha Mt Austin whils on tha road baak to camp and Austin said ha had battar hurry as *ths M.Bs era picking up eTeryona*(Rl34)# In his statement# Dsf.Bx.l. Austin adnits going to town with Elenchstt and others and than rsturning to aanp. Latar sesa soldiers cease into oamp end said thay had had aesa trouble in town and ware going beck# Ha soya ha cant with than but Aanlaa issuing any ammunition or haying a gun# whan tha shooting started ho ran and returned to aanp#

(b) TILLY 1 Salth says that Tilly 'left in front of e»* »fcan thay all raturnad to town (R90-91), Blanohatt says ha did not saa Tilly in tha group (F102)« Tilly# in hia statement, Psf.Bx.4. aaya ha shot "araps* that night till about 8*30 p*au # atayad around tha tant till about 9 13© p*m.# laft and want to tha aesa hall wbsrs ha want to aleap# Be dsalarei that ha arose about four o'clock of tha Burning of 27 September 1943# to build tha fires and that ha did not know of tha trouble or shooting la town#

(i)	BARRETT» Joseph Says Barratt had a gun end was firing at tha military police at a distance of fire yards (R72-73# 75)* Edwarda aaya Barratt# in tha first »pub* in town# stood on s bench talking (H7fl}« and than sailed tha soldiers outside and asked them to 'stick with him* (R84-85, 91)| that Barratt told them to get thair carbine a from thair tents and than to more in threea towards town (H79»86)i that Barratt had a 'tossy' or mathine gun, ordered tha military police to put up thair hands and than started firing at them (R79-80)# Edwards got Barrett's gsa mask by adstake whan hla detachment vu an route from Fort Sill to Camp Patrick Hsnry# and found soma aarbina nwinltloa stored in it (ESI). Salth aaya that Barratt and Austin wars tailing what thay would do on thair return to toss (R$4) and that Barratt had a 'tony gun* whan ha said 'hands up* la tha Stasre (R90). Blanchstt says Barratt Sas with tha group all erening (R9&)| that Barratt , directs! tha soldiers to go to samp for thair guns aftar thay had agreed to ■stick with him*(K104)| that Barratt and Austin passed out tha aasainitioa and Barratt returned ta tha group with a gua aider his coat (KlOJ)# Captain Bosses said Barratt had a pass to go to town (PICT). Lieutenant Clean arrested Barratt at ala a'elofc thd next morning (K115). Ts»ny»sa aaya Barrett had a pass to ga to tom and ha saw hia there (Hi33 ♦13^-137)» HA heard Barxwtt tall tha group to *atiak together* and to got thair guns (10.37) Olbbs aaya ha saw Barratt in a pub dr 1 akin* bear (R144-X43). Barratt in hia statement# Proa.Bx»*£*, aaya that about 9.3O p.m«, 26 September lf43# ha west ta Lauaoestoa alone aa an afflaial pass and had a bear la a pub# * Sametime# while I was is tome# I heard some shots fired*•	He denied knowing where or

how it happened# Ha returned to eamp# want to bad *sad that la all that X knew of tha lasidant*#

- 13 •

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(326)

(J) bwIBOi Edwards says Ewing mi with group Ami the caaunitios tu pun! out (RT9 )• Blanehett says Ewing vu in the group that mt to tow (Rf9,102,105).	Lieutenant Qlena aays Swing was Biasing at tha bod

ahaok at elersn o'aloak that sight (Hllh) and that they found him with a loadad rifla 'out for a walk' between 11*30 p.a. and 12i30 a.*. tha aaxt aoruing by Guard Foot No 2 (R115)* Lieutenant Blondgran waa with Lieutenant Clans whan Ewing was found (R117)* Ewing, in .ha.a statement, Pros,La,'C*» adults that on being told they war# haring trouble la town, ha got out of bad, got his rifle and a round of ammunltion which ha had had for aoea tins and want along with tha othera to town. He eaw Austin passing out eanunl-tion to a group of their unit, They found aoae military police in the square at tha aonuaent* He 'stopped beak at the eorner*. Firing started and he ran away and finally got back to eamp, atopping to t alk to a sentry, when he was arrsstad and hia rifle taken awey,

(k) ^APTIH» Blanehett says Martin waa with tha group aaaaabled in eaop to return to town (R102). Tennyson said ha saw kart in in town (R13&) and Gibbs saw Marti* in tbs pub with Barrstt (3146)* Martin, in his stats-■eat, pros.Ex«'K', tells a detailed story of going to town, returning to oaap.to obtain weapons, obtaining a bayonet, returning to town where shots were fired et the military polio# at which tiae he started running beak to eaatp, losing the bayonet on the way, and than going to bed*

(1) TEJCTSOHi Edwards says Tennyson assembled with the group to return to town and had a bayonet (K79#S3)» Saith says Tennyson was in the soupsny street before the group went to town (B91),	Elanchatt	did not see

Tennyson with the group, Tennyson* sworn as u witness, says he was in town end saw Barrett in tha puh and that on hia way hone, while in the center of town, he heard bullets and laid down behind the aonuaent in the public square, Bullets passed over hia bead* Ha nan Shaw and .as	lying	down behind

the Monuaent* When the firing stopped he returned to oamp and went to bod (£133*134)* la hie atateaant, Pros»Sx.'I'. Tennyson says ha went to town without a peas with the group* Barrstt asked thorn to 'stick together*, to which they 'all* agreed and want hack to camp where Austin end Barrett told then to gat their guns*	Be-dalles he waa close to the place where the firing

occurred but he could hear It Tary plainly* Ha than returned to seep and went to bed*

(a) GIBBSi Edwards and Saith both saw Cibbe with the group aaaaabled to return to town (B79, &9« 91)* Blanehett saw Gibbs with a rifle with tha group in tha road reedy to return to tows (Rl02-103)*

Tennyson says he eaw Gibba (obtain) a pass that night (3138). Gibbs* in his stateaaat, Pcf.S**7. says ha went to Launceston on pass, alone* Ha went to two pubs and returned to c«ap, arriving about tan o'aloak*

I

c

(n) HPGHSSi Joseph eaw Hughes Alla following the crowd beck to town (B74) end is the crowd that did tha firing (£72)* Edwards saw Hughes in tha pub Aare Barrett was talking and alao when they returned to cup and asenabled to secure anouaition prior to return to town (H76-79), Blanohett says Hughes was present in tha group all erasing (R95,1C2). Ha was arrested

• u-

' CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(327)

by Lieutenant Glenn (R115), Hughes, In bis statement Proe.Ci.’D*. admits going to town without a pass and visiting two pubs with others from his swap. Ha also states that Barrett asked the men if they would 'stick together* against the whites end that they agreed to do so* He further admits that the men returned to samp for their weapons, that he obtained his earbine and reoeiyed fire rounds of aommition which he asserts he gave away. In his statement he further admits that the man went bask to town) that he saw the military police near the monument and asked than why they did not want the colored soldiers in townj and that the police put their light on them. He declares he ran away aa soon as firing started, returning to camp and going to bad, Ha wae later awakened and placed under arrest,

9,	hrrore and Irregularities,

(a) iroa.Lxs, *C* to *K* inclusive were received in evidence with the direction that the statements therein would apply only to the signer and would not be received or considered ea evidence against any of the others (B33), liaoh contain matter affecting other of the accused than the signer thereof.

In tha opinion of the Board of Tavist heretofore expreseed (CM ETO 134* Stump et el), the reading of such statements of accused may become highly prejudicial to the substantial rights of other of the accused. This conclusion is baaed on the familiar rule that t

“Tha confessions or admissions made by s oo-conspirator or co-defendant after the termination of the oonapiracy and in tha absence of the defendant, ore not admissible against the defendant as substantive evidence to prove h i a guilt. His confession, therefore, subsequently made, even though by the plea of guilty, is not admissible in evidence, ee such, against any but himself and even the most solemn admission made by him after tbs conspiracy is at an end is not •vidsnsa against accomplices’, (2 Wharton's Cr,

u.v.,sa«.722, p, 121J-14, and sec,728, p.1223),

Tha present ease differs from the Stump ease in that the statements herein were received in evidence with the cautionary instruction to the court that they were admissible only aa against the particular signer and should not be considered aa evidence against the other accused. Furthermore tha statements are few in number and so particular difficulty arises in the court observing the injunction ea to their uae as evidence against only the makere* Under such circumstances the evil of accumulating a “matrix of hearsay evidence* against accused other than the one making the statement is obvlatsd, Ths statements wsre rightfully admitted in eri denes (CM £T0 804, Pale tree et •1).

(b) Def.Kxa.l to 7 inclusive were self-serving declarations end If •bjectlon had been made by prosecutioa should have been excluded (CM £TQ 422*

- is -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(328)

Crcc*)•	Bowerer, as thay vara admitted »a request of tha defense without

objection, tha error was self-invited cad cannot ba considered aa prejudicial to aoeuaad (CM £70 438, Smith).

(a) Upon croaa-a ratal nation of Smith, a witaaaa for tha proaaautioa, his prior writtan atateaeat made to tha investigating officer waa praaantad to hia (R92). After ha admittad ita authenticity it waa read to tha court*

It contained eom» assertions ia conflict with hia evidence on direct examination. Inasmuch as Smith affirmed the making of tha statement it waa proper to place it la evidence and read it to tha court* Thera was no necessity of laying foundation for ita admission nor for proving it by other testimony (3 Wharton's Crim.Sv., 11th £d., eee.1359, p.2243)* However, it was admissible for the purpose only of impeaching Smith's credibility and was not substantive evidence of the truth of the matter therein stated (70 C.J., sec.1339* P*U53l Southern Railway Co. v. Gray, 241 U.S. 333,3371 60 L.KD., I030, 1033). Cautionary Instructions to this offset should have bean given to the court, but in this instance th# absence was not prejudicial to rights of accused (AW 37)*

10* Conduct prejudicial to good order end military discipline ia violation of Article of War 96 (Charge III), ooaaltting a riot in violation of Article of War 89 (Charge I), and Joining in a mutiny in violation of Article of War 66 (Additional Charge', are separate offenaee and not multiple chargee although growing out of the seme incident (CM £70 895, Fred. A, Davis at el).

11.	The Board of Review has had ocoaslom to examine into many questions arising out of and connected with the offense of •ooseaitting a riot* under the 89th Article of War ia two reeently approved holdings1 CM £70 804,

Qglctrcc at al and CM KT0 895, Fred A. Pavia at al. ( Salt holdings establish the principles that the offence may be eoamitted by solitary personnel at places other than 'quarters, garrison, camp and on the march*| that a person who is present at a riotous and tumultuous assembly where his presence ia intentional sad who saeourages the rioters la tha furtherance of the enter-prlee either by overt acta or sxhortstloms or remarks may be primm-feeie inferred to be a partlsipant| that a by-atander, spectator or observer cannot be held as e partialpent 1 that all partialpaata are responsible as prlnsipalsi that the offence may be icmalttcd by three or mere parsons and that the substance of the offense is the disturbance ef the public peace to the terror of the people* In view of the detailed and careful consideration the subject received in the above cited holdlxgs it ia not believed necessary to repast tha discussion of tha elementa of the effeaae la the instant case*

Colored American soldi era, ano^ wham were certain of the aceueed, made an attack with the wee of fire-arms upon mmabere of the military police deteahmeat on duty in the town ef Inanseaton, Devonshire, England on the night of 26 September 1943* The attack had bean deliberately and premed-Itatedly planned by accused without cause, except imaginary grievancea against the pelieemea who in the performance ef their duties had apparently incurred their animosity. There is no suggestiom or inference that say of tha military policemen provoked tha attack by either verbal threats or sets of menace.

- 16 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(329)

Firtuai were not use* by the policemen, who neither attempted to prevent nor to repol the assault* The nob of soldiers without waraiag Mine out of darkness, fired upon the policemen and then la a eownrdly ■anner disappeared* There were two dlatiaet volleys between whisk desultory shots were discharged* Two of the policemen received dangerous and painful gun-shot wounds and one of the wounded sen has suffered per* meneat lajuries* Ons of ths attackers, Barrett, used a "tomay gua* or sub-machine gun, but the greeter number of the attackers were armed with carbines* Ths public peaos manifestly was disturbed in an outrageous manner and proof that the populace was terrorised is indisputable. That the disturbance assumed the violence and turbulence of a riot, as defined by the authorities, is an irrefragable conclusion*

The accused Geddies, Lindsey, Shaw, Blake, Austin, Barrett, Ewing* Martin, Tennyson and Hughsa ware aot only present at the rioting but were active and notorious partisipants* Thalr guilt of 'oonaltting a riot* is proved by substantial avldsnca which fully sustains the findings of the oourt. Conflicts In ths avidsnos were resolved against tbeas accused by ths court end the Board of Review having satisfied itself that ths evide nea of their guilt is competent and substantial, will not rw-examlna ths avidsnos to test its credibility or weight* in *ascussd cannot have both s trial by Jury and s retrial by aa appellate court* (Alisa v* United States, 4 Fed.(2nd) (7 Cir.) 686,6901 CM ITO O95, Fred A. Deris et el* supra)* Ths Board of Review is of ths opinion that ths record of trial is legally sufficient to support ths findings that ths taa lamed accused were guilty of *eomsdttlng a riot* (Charge I)*

12* The accused are Jointly charged with an assault with intent to oommit a felony, to wit 1 murder by shooting Sergeant Cox of ths military polls# with rifles, carbines and towagr guns (Specification 1* Charge II)*

A similar charge is directed against tha accused with respect to tho shooting of Sergeant Simeons, also of ths military polios* Such offenses were properly laid under the 93rd Article of War* Ths elements of the crime are declared by the Manual for Courts-Martial I928 (par.149 * p*17®) to be as followsi

■Assault with latent to murder,— This is aa assault aggravated by tha ooasurrwnoe of a specific intent to murder| la other words, it is an attempt to murder* As la other attempts there must bo sa overt act* beyond more preparation or throats* or sa attempt to make an attempt* To oonstltuto an assault with intent to murder by firearms It is not asoessary that tho weapon bo diacharged1 and in no ease is ths sstual laflletloa of injury necessary* sees*.

- 17 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(330)

A wot* apoeifie analysis of the offenao is at at *4 thwn

"An intentional attempt by tIsIum with present ability, or la flow* jurisdictions, apparent ability, and without legal excuse or protocation, to do an injury ta the parson of another, aoeoMpamied by faata and eirauswtaaoafl indicative of am intent to take life, aonatitutaa tha offana* of assault with latent to, murder, •»***

(3® C.J.* M0.15S* p*l|5vl4)«

"In addition te the rafttiflUe intent, la order to aoastltato as osaanlt alth 1steat to warder, there oast ha an attempt or an aaaanlt to tarry oat that latentioa. to other words, thara must ha an orert oat la paraaenaa of tha intent an distinguished frao the aotra latent ltaalf, and also from ■are threat*, or oara preparations not gala* far enough to oonotitato an attanpt.

There nut ha a eoane&teaaat of aa aat ehiah If aot prevented woaid produaa a battery. ••**•(30 C.7., ae«.lj9, p.ld-17).

•Halloa or aaliao aforethought la aa ateaa-tlal ingredient af aaaeult with Intent to ■ardor. An la the eeee of murder. Bailee ■ay he either express or lnplled. While the exp reanion *aalloe eforwthaugh' includes tha alasant of premeditation, it la laamtarlal for how abort a tine tha ■alias ■ay hors axiotad.***** (30 C.J., aoc.163, p.90).

• While a apodfle latent te kill la aa aaaaa tlal ingredient of tha offanao of aaooalt with Intent to a#salt murder, this reguiro-■ant does not exeat aa latant, othar than an latent whioh la inferrable from tha eir-eumataacea. so while the intent cannot be tallied aa a natter of law. It nay he inferred as a fact fron the aur roundly eireunsteases, aaah as the mnlowfal see af a deadly weapon, proTided it wan uead la flush o ■sowar aa to lndiooto a& 1stcation to kill, or frees aa act of violence fron ehiah, la the ueael and or* dlnary aouroa af things, death or great bedlly harm nay reeult.***** (36 C.J., oaaJL^, p.21*

- u -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(331)

tin a M*<r mt pomu am present at tka tins of tka sami salsa of tka aaaaalt tkalr i ad i ritual trialaal rsapoaaikillty it datarwiaad ky tka fall aid at well established prlasl pleat

■fiat akara twe or mar* persons eating idtk k semen iataat Jointly engage la tka seas aadartaklag aad Jointly eomlt aa unlawful oat, aoak la akargaakla witk liability aad raapoaalkilitjr for tka oata of all tka etkars, aad aaak la guilty of tka offaaoa seowdtted, to akiak ka kaa eoatrl bated to tka aaoa aztast aa if ko vara tka aola offender. lad tka nawi purpose aaod aat ka to aoaalt tka portleolar trine akiak la aaaadttad| if tao persons Join la a purpose to eemdt a trim, aaak of tkau, if aetually or eoastruetirwly proaaat* la aot only guilty aa a principal, if tka otkar aoaalta tkat yartiaalar ariaa, but ka ia alao guilty of any otkar ariaa aoaalt tod by tka otkar ia yarauaaao of tka aoaaa purpose, or aa a natural or probable eoaeequaaoe thereof*

In ardor to «how a eeamnlty of unlawful parpoaa it ia not aaaaaaary to ahow an express agraaaaat or an nndaratanding batwaaa tka parties* Jter la it aaaaaaary that tka aoaapir-aay or acaaaon purpoaa aha11 ba shown by poaitiwe aridanoat ita aziatanaa nay ba infarrad from all tka airaunatanaaa acoonpaaylng tka doing of tka aat **a*| la otkar worda, praaonoart or a aoanu-aity of purpoaa my ba ahown by airauaatanaaa os wall aa by dirsat arldaxao,1 (Id C.J., see.115*

p.116).

■All parsons who am actually or aenatruotlraly pmoaat at tka tins and plans of a arias, whothar it is a felony or aaroly a wiadamaaor, and who altkar actually aid, abet, assist, or adrlsa its oomlaaiao, or am tkara with tkat pnrpaaa la wind, to tho knovlodga at tka party oatually aomitting tka eriai are guilty os prlnslpale in tka aaaoad degree, although they did nat tbanoalwaa aennpllak tka purpoaa,*

(16 C.X., aae,U7« y.IJO)*

- If .

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(332)

*8poolfls latent. ihm a particular intent in an elsmsnt of ■ felony, it is essential that one aiding and abetting the eoanisAon of such offense should have Wen swore of the existence of sash intent in the mind of the netual perpetrator of the felony) but if aesuoed had knowledge of the particular intent on the pert of the actual perpetrator of the felony this ' is sufficient*.(22 035., see,67, p.157).

■So, snang offenders, the Article# recognise so prineipols, and no aeoeaaories either before or after the fast, as sueh.

••••» Xh the nilltary praetlee all aeeused persons ere treated as independent offend* era. Iren though they osy W jointly charged and tried, as for participation in a mutiny far emaple, and cash soy be guilty of e distinct Measure of criminality celling for e distinct puniehmet, yet all arc principals in law,* (Wlnthrop's Military Law h Proeedents, 1920 Reprint, p.106).

There is sahstantial evidenes that the aesuoed Oeddiea, Lindsey, Skew,

Blahs, Austin, Barrett, Swing, Martin, Tannyssn and Hughes wars prsssat In tbs public square in Launceston at the tine whsa the military polios wars the victim of an assault with urn of fire-ares by tW group of solo red soldiers of which Barrett sod Austin were the leaders. The evidence fails to establish the identity of the pertisular scanned who discharged the ballets into the Wdles of the two polissmn. It is, however, indisputably shorn that it was cither Barrett with his 'tosnqr gun* or one or mre of the other nsmd seaweed with their carbines who inflicted the gun-shot wounds sn Cos snd Simonu.	These noned accused deliberately

pi sweat snd executed this attack on the nilltary poliesmo. They returned to scop for the express purpose of arming tkernelves sad securing amunitiom and npon aeapleting these preliminary arrangements proseeded in n body to the public square and without warning opened fire on the poll earns, Rader the principles above sot forth tW eat of one or mre ef the group was the ost of ell, end ell ere chargeable as principals in tbs costalssioa ef the arise.

The prosecution's evidence substantially supports the sonslmsion that each ef these tea eefused had knowledge of the purpose ef arming themselves sod returning to tW tenter of town. They wars 'looking for the M.Ps to pink s fight with*. While the anmaitiaa wee Wing dis-tribmtsd to them in samp, Austin end Barrett discussed 'shut they wars going te do after they get into tern*, TW other eight accused were preseat on thin Oceanian. Although it le not proved that any of tW tea accused had actual intention of discovering Cox and Simoons and Shootlag them or that

• M -

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTS
CONFIDENTIAL

(334)

Hottest atatoa tte mm iMtriM tkaii

Hitiar tea km wimly daaorltod* but la IKiml aot la sash ten* m fully to dia-It firm mm oto*r lUlUry or lino a, to* aharaatorlalaB ^itnt aot to lug aaffi-sltotly mipial. It my. It la tollOYod, properly to doflaod u MMlatlai la aa ualovful oppooitioa or rosiotenoo to* nr doflaaw of auporlor Military authority* with a <olltorato purpose to usurp* subvert, or override tho omo* or to ojoot with (sic) authority fiM off loo.1 (viathrop'a kill t ary law a freeedesta* naprlat* p»578).

with roapoot to tho proof of tho latoat to overthrow or oror-ride Military authority wlathrop furthar oritoai

•Tho latoat May to opoaly declared la worde* or it nay to l^lt«4 froa tho oat or aoto deM*~>aa, for eaoaple* fro* tho actual Mbveraioa or aappxoaaloa of tha auporlor authority* from to aaouaptloa of tha MBcaad which beleage to tho auporlor* a roaouo or atvoapt to roaouo a prlaoaor* a etoekiag of onto out refusal to aaroh or do duty* a taklac to arm aad aaauodag a aaaaelag at tit ado* to. i or It May to authored from a Tarioty of olroiioatauooa oo oao of ahiah porhapa would of itaolf aloM hare juatlflod tho lafarosM. But tho foot of opMblaoUoa— that tho oppoaltloa or roaiotaaoo la tho proocodlag of a auator of ludlrltoala Mtiag together apparoatly olth a momi purpoaa—■ la* though uot ooaalualTO* tho aoot aigaifi-amt* aad Moot uaaal orldoaoo of tho orlataaM of tho latoat la Quoatiea*. (vlathxop'a military Lav h frooodaata* toprlat* p*580-581)*

Tho offeaea of ■ JolalM la a toll ay* la dial loot fraa tha offaaaa of ■togtaalag, oaaltlag or otoalag* a aatiay aadt

•JOlmlag la a aatiay la tha offtoM af oaa too taksa port la a mtiay at aay ataga af Its progress* toothar ha oacagoa la actively cmoatlag Its purpoaoa* ar* tolag pro scat atiaulatoa ad aoaourogoa thaw too da**

(viathrep'a Kllltary Lav a frooadaata*

Boprlat, p*5<3)*

- 23 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

»

(335)

Sofero a ealdiar aa* b« guilty of 'joining la • raitlay* tharo nest be a satiny la whleb 1m jolu. The MdsUst* ef a ratixy la the wjsr prcalao of the «haxf? sad failera t* prove It la fatal t* a aharge cf Joining la a aatiny (01 1*5432(1919). D4j.Opa.JAO., 1912.1940, 0*0.424, pp.2S3.2S9).	In triad a la the proof tint a wtlsy existed,

there aeoat ba substantial rrlAasM that ths Mutineers la their eoadaet were aotlvoted bp the apoalfio lataat to over-throw or neutrall sa id litcry authority either permanently or temporarily, winthrep'• cautionary eeaaaat with respect to thla element of the offense la particularly applicable la the laotast mh.

laasxaah sa the court aoralttei tbs accused of 'jelnlj^ la a satiny* tsdast the authority of the Killtary polleo the Issue of eeeueeds* guilt of 'Jalnlng la a outlay* against the oaotp eeawwader rad kla eubor-dlaato off leer a oust bo detendnel upon aa exceedingly narrow factual base. Kvidanse with reapeot to the aatlwltioo of eeeuoede' superior offleera prior to and during the rioting la otrlklagly absent. Lieutenant 8icagy, whoso identity, eownond or authority ere aot rerealed by the erldeaee, refused to Issue pasaea becouee the aea did aot wear blouses (F7®)» Thews forward there Is o hiatus la the erldeaee aa to the whereabouts and aetlrltlas of the officers until LieutenantsCofaa (Fll?»ll)), Ciena (P114*115) and Bla&Igrwa (R117.11®) wore awakened la their quart ere at approximately Hi CO p.u. end were informed of the dloturbonoo la the town. After passes hoi been denied there lo not area aa lafereneo that eay of fleer etteaptod to super tic* or control the nations of the aea. If the reeord ho rood literally there were no of fleers In snap. Uouerer, It iqr ho Implied from the teetlxaay of lieutenants Cohn, Glenn end Bloodgrea that the offleoro had retired fee* the night and hod left the Of fleer of the' Day aa duty. There lo o suggestion la Lieutaasat Glenn's testimony that aentrlaa hod bees posted (RU4-115)» but It ia olcrloua that the group of ooldiere, led by Barrett tad Austin, returned to eacqp, armed thaaaaolToo, soourod auraltlon tad departed fear toes without interferecse of cay hind. The laplieotloa lo persuasive that during this period the officers hod bo contest with their osn, were asserting so festual eoaaond or eathorlty cad wore aot ores cognisant of the develepseats of the evening. The eathorlty of the ooKoradlag off leer of the easy woo eaeraisod by 'resets oontrgl* cad this situation irapsis a search of the record to detesnlas where sad hew the eeoueed and others who wore ia the group of sealeonteats over-rod*, resisted or newt ralloed the ocaoandor'o el lit cry authority.

There lo one, sod only one, fooot of the orldoaoo, whisk suggests o eeaeplrwey having for lto purpose the overthrowing or neutralisiEg of the willtcry authority of the officers.

Edwards in his namtln of oetlvitleo tostlflodi

"ftw oovos o'sleek that avoalag, I woo ia eons toot up those, sir* sad raw one «ailed bs sad told wo SJ per seat, of the Caqpoqr sight go to to*, aad I — we goes eo la sad

- 23 .

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(336)

Sorpaaat HapBso go*» ob to tBe First lorgoaat'o toot ul Bo wrltoo out oouo llttlo Blip* of paper to toko to tBo UoutoaoBt Soapy, aat *o Alt aot Boro ao Blouooo sat «o put ob our orar* soots oat Bo tit sot dia tbo poos os, — g fi|f e>o» o« ton to tpuB*(B78) (uatoreoorlap ouppllot).

BlaooBott oftor AooorlBlag tBs isoitost of tBo toaiol of tBo posooo By LioutoaoBt Soapy atatost

•• • • o* wo >11 bo octsito tBO Btottuoartoro 'JdHSLOL h	«riw'.b

oo oil BOOS up tom* (R9«) (uadorooorinp swppliot).

AltBoupB tBo orltoBoo lo frapaoatsry oat is far frc* oonriaslap that oo«B sat all of tBo aoosaot ooro yroaoot at tBo aoetiap of tBo ooltiors "out* alto tBo Headquarter*" laastlately folio vise tBs tomial of paaaaa «Bso it was totoralaot to po to tows "anyway*, it will Bo aaoaaot for proooat ooaoltorotioo tBot oosB of tBo aooaoot psartioipotot is tUi ttootlap aot woo a party to tBo aproo—at oat tBaroaftor aa«B toportot from, ssnp wltBout proper pass. TBla la largely aa arbitrary oo&oosolos to tBo parsasoutloo»s oaao aat is oppooot to tBo established prlaolplo of lav la tBot it resolves tBo towBts oval aat tbo sscaast ratBor them 1b tBoir fsror.

TBo oatlro enlisted porooaool of the stop ware roatrlotot ob tBo BigBt of 26 SoptoaBor 1943, Bot Boob ooatiaooualy roatrlotot for oaao tiao t Bars to boossioo af ebaeaee of proper uniforms. TBo toportmro of the assuoot fras aeap wltBout poaooa following the proooaoortot opr spent aoa therefore ob oat of tollBorata dsflsooo of standing order*. TBo psreBlea for oolutloo la whether owsk violation af standing ertsrs, reaultaat upon a prior aoafstorotloB of tBe asauaot ooaatitutot antlay.

ttathrop'a oo—sata aro aoot portiaoati

• It la thia 1stoat wBloB tistlapulahsa it from tBo other offwaooa witB whleB, to tBs soharroosoMBt of the student, it Boo oft so Boob ooafttoat BetB la troatlaoa aat Oaaoral Ortora.

Thua, tlaraapaat towart a sa—ltnt offlaor, tBs offonoa wfalsB la tBa oaBJeet of Art. BO,

Boa aoofftiaaa Boos sBarpst aa aat lay, Mora frequently ths tolap or offsrliw of violates to o superior offloar, aot tlaoBotlsasa af ortsrs, - of ft assa speslfltally asta poolaBaBla By Art. 21, - hare Boos aa aharpot or eessltoret*

Still aoro frequently has tBa tealgaetlea af •wBtiny' bssa arroaaoualy attachat to tlsort sc a of ths si ass knows aa "sutlaoms aoataat* - suaB as Asflast Bshariour or tBroatoaiag lanpuago

• 24 •

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(337)

towarl aspsrlam* w»t«UQ w aasnsarUs

the natrmi si a of isllltary ilsoip&iao*

^UeU«u of loUirn »lti a rtw to ooto &? vioiooM oar laslftosaaea which however are not caaalttel, UtnqwrtM «o£ oxoltlsy iiMU* siooa ot	h*li	for	the	jmrpoa* of proteet-

i%2 ogoioot ortora, £ulUlm to parfom nrrlM la the faceaat belief that tfe* tera of aalistaamt has aspired. fee. fsssfc ii corpora, rtoppiag short of overt mU of resletaawe, or act aharseteriosl by a tell hereto latent to overthew superior authority, to not eoastitote la gessral tho loyal effaooo of nttlay, hat ar* aasnealy to ho treatal eo'eaa* duet to the pr* Julias of eao4 order sal Military llaelpLlas' la violation of irt,i*2. dal the pom la to ha soil of disorderly nstut Kotor tha iafluaaeo of iatoaloatloa, which, though acomo-pulet by raelstaaaa to a superior, la without tfe® oal»o poouller to outlay la loo.

Tho &ift*iti.ca of watijgr at Military loo la ibleat boat illustrate! by a roforoooa to the

oaooo treatla; of that cffaaoo as aster* ot BtrltlEf law. Thus. la royarft to mtlay or revolt oa Aoarlaaa seraieat veaaols. It haa heea osproaaly hall that aa latoitioa to everthse* for the tlas at least the leeful authority of the sorter la aa essential elamat of t&o cxlse, that siapla ▼loleaeo ayalsat tbo off leer, without proof of latest to evwrrlte hie authority, la set sufficient to oosatltuta revolt or sitiay, that am dlaabo-dia&co of <&era, *&aooofl$eal*i by such lstoat, toes not eaouat to outlayi oo4 that l&aoloct le&yausyo or llsorlwrly behaviour la par w Inauffialest to establish It*. (vial troy's military Las eei rrwaateats Boprlat -pp«578-5S®).

siaoo the violation of or llieteliuo* to ertera uoaeaoepaslol CLth the let eat to overthrow or aeutrolleo nllltery authority Is aot outlay (nathwp’a Military Las u) rroootenta • ftsprlxt, foet-art* 19, p.58c» 54 CtJ* raa.557, p*1142,U43)» will the additional faat that tin awoaeal iitobeyel the etaotery ortera ceafisieg th*» to wasp os a result of a aooa earn anat olovato their offaaoa to that of outlay? / The additional ecaaeai ftn» Corpus Juris la lta diawuwdea or Buitiet outlay la parti seat 1

*7ha ana oat of disobsdicsvo to a lawful ceana&l of tit ship's of fl aero la aot of It self as oatoev-or to sake a revolt. To aaseuat to that effeaso dlaobadisaao aaurt ho ccuftiaad with aa atteaqpt to

• 25 •

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(338)

imiU »Uun of tbo cm t« • (taml roalot-ON, i |«B<ral liieMicaM, or a |Mml iMglNt Ml nfu«2 of lit/, or there amt be ■ geaorri mklutln of the crow to resist a slagle lawful order*. (5i 0.7. 3*0.857. ».1H2).

TU itrtonil of the drool I Oowrt of Anoili (Itati Cir) Utt respect to the olcmate of the trim of revolting agalast tt* authority of o iMp'i motor which lo equally applicable, la the last oat oooo, la Uluainatiagi

•The spool fit question la vhotker tbo agrsc-sat of tho ontiro crow of tbo ably, uchsnl la t port of rofugo bo for* tbo nl of tbo voyage, to refuse to obey tbo ordora of tbo motor, ul tholr salted oatlm la carrying oat tbo ayrocmat, while rami alag w board, la eadeavoriag to mko a revolt. Tbla «oa oat uaarpotloa of tbo nimail frea tbo motor, for tbaro na ao offer! to tabs chore* of tbo dblp. Bat evidently It aaa a eaoooasfal ifiiourcr to deprive bia of authority aad ooMmal oa board, aad to racist ul preveat bia la tbo free aad lawfri oxaruieo of bis soamri.

Tbo oaltad ootloa of a oroo la refuaiag 8* yield obodloaoo to tbs lawfri uoml of tbo motor deprives bia of tbo authority uljmul bo «oa la duty bound to ecaralso. Tbia/os aaab resist* aaoo aad proventloa of tbo free aad lavfal eaorsiao of bia authority and iwnoml as aa uadortaklag by a crew to deprive bia of aay laaalmta lastxvaeatd* lty aecoasary to tbo soa—afl aad miogiwaait of tbo ship. A meter my have poaasssiaa of tbo ship olaoo, bet ba caaaet be la eeinmwd ef it, if tbo crew aalte la refuaiag to sorry oet his orders.

Corneal of a fortress mass actual eontrel of tbs

i.	garrlsea	for	Military	purposes.	Oeanaad	ef	a

sblp mass actual control of tbs craw far aan~ tied perposes.	2f all tbs garrlsea of a for*

tress, or all tbo crew of a ably, refuse obodlaaao to tbo o«io—iudor, they deprive bia of authority aad enamel | they resist aad provaat tbo smrclss sf bis authority aad seamed*. (Basiltea v. Halted states, 246 Tad.15,18*19)•

Tbs record of trial ldoatiflss aet aero tbsa sightsee ma as hovlag participated la tbs lafSrml aoetlag wherda it «aa dot oral nod to leave tbo eaap aad go to towa aotwlthat aadlag coztrary orders. rTe sustsia tbs charge of *joiaiag la a outlay* such eeaduet oust bo declared to bo ouffleioat to establish aa latest to overthrow or neutralise the oeoa—ador's authority. It Is dlffledt to soo la tbla sltuatloa substaatld ovificsos

• H •

CU.IFlDLiUlAL
'CONFfDIPM-

(339)

which weu14 permit a court to iafer oueh erlol&el latoat • ul without cash latoat there la ao oaao proved «cala*t accweed. A eooqpsrlaoa of the fasts la this mm with these established la CM ITO CJ5» Fred< AtPorla ot al decisively discloses the tcuoue evldeatlary fewadatis* from which the aatlaoua latoat oa the part of the lastaat ao eased anat he lafcrred.^j The eemaeat of fade# Same la the oaao of Baited state# Almeida (ifclla.

1847* dted la vhertoa'e free.Indl«t.,p.724) le etrlkiaslr psrtiaaati

•Ike alagl* Ml of aapre—Altated reslataaeo to the eaptala eaaaot he ideatlfled with his formal dagredatloa from the eensaad.

•till loaa with the maarpatlea of hie etatiea. without orerlooklat the graftatieae of erlmo aad coafouadlag the aooUeatel tarhaleaee of a heated sailor with the deliberate aad darlat aad trlwmphsat oeaaplreey of mutiaoere*.

(Cited la Baited State# Baff 13 Ted.630,43a).

A praetieal, eoaeoa-piece eaplaaatloa of tho aetleia aad doalaretieae of the elchteea aea (from a total of 174 am subject to tho csMoadlaa offlear's authority) bespeak* ealy a dollhoreto dlsraocrd. reaultlag feme dlaappcl staai t aad aacnr, of a standias order of tho asm? ee—eadsr sad aot am latoat to overthrow, subvert or aea trail ee his authority.

While evlAesee jrnlai tho dleorier as aa eatlroty was rslrraat sad may be properly eeaaldsrod (CM ITO #J5, ml A. Peris et al) tho detor-al satire factors sre those eveats a Marries la aemp prior to tho first aasMthorload depart are for team. After the visit of the aotaood to tho oeooad pahllo hoaoo aad Barrett'a asaopplloa of laoiarohlp o mow aoto 1# needed la tho otidoaoo. fheaee forward it la tho ailltary poll00 who are tho oh joe t a of aoooaoda* aaimoalty aad It la agalact them that oil prepare* ties* are directed, culadaatiac la the acts ef vlolesce la the pahlle equsr* af tho towo. There le aot ares a edatilla ef erldemee that aaoaeed let aided he ettoeh cay ef the military pcraaasol except tha ailltary pallca. It wae the emthorlty ef the military pollca which was attempted ta ha asbvwrtedi act that ef tho iimeHlei officer of tho eeap aad hie oahordlaoto officers.

It la lrrwtleaal te eeatoad that each disorder eeaotltvted *the dellhereto aad darlac aad trlwopheat eeoaplrasy ef artlMW)9 directed at the imesullai officer ef the coop aad hie aahardlaate effieore.

the Based of Mewlov deco aot herela doddo that wtlay aeolaot tho oathorlty of iismUii ofAeero eaooot exlat eat ef their preoaaoe.

■either does it eeaolade that a confederated tetipi ta delate wasil or erdere asy aot eoaotitato o matlay stalest authority of oaporlsr offlooro. aador dreuoataacac aad csadltlcae ether them thorn dlaoloood by the rooord of trial la the lastaat aaoe.

- V •

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

Tk* aasaloat— ttmUm —at )M U*t tt» jm«h«Um fall** to jam tk* oital ala—mt *f iU akarg* af *>lalag la a artUf mlut toa ■kUarlt/ «f U# m— naialir.« Hat tto lat—fc t* —rrl4a. —krsrt or

Dm taa—*4 oar* fdltr *4 a ailtorjr off****, af *>laiag la a —tlay*

Za Ua apUiaa af Ua Baar* af Bari— Ua — rt is ltgall/ losafflal—t to asyyaart tot flatlaga tod attuwl 0*4Aiaa, liaUiy, skat, Blako, iutla, larratot Xclag, —ito, Tauqr— and Eagfc— «er» guiltj of •>lalai la a artlar* agaiaat Ik* ntoaritf *f toa *o—oollag offi**r af C—y f—arglll— as* 111 saksrilaata afflssra, (3po«lfl«atl— 2 af toil* tiaasl Ckirpa),

U* Aa lyaalftsatl— af Ckargo III allagta ia partiaaat part tod tka as******

■aatlag JaUUf as* la ysrsuaa— of a as—aa lat—t *1*	ia	—ajoaati— witk aartaia

otkcr soKlart, totat aaass ar* aakaooa, orsagfall/ a** aalsofklly saiaa ar— as* a—aai-tiaa* baar as—* lataatloaa11/ llsakargs fir* aonaa la a rttklua aal aalavfal —a—r* salon—tary atataa—ts la toa praaaaa* af ttoar —Ultra* aarto fr— tkalr o—y* at easy foaajgUl— to tot aaatar af tk* ta— af iftaairtoa, Kaglaai* fir* «p*a saabars af Ua allltvf pallia* V S irar» as* otkor —rasas**

Am la tkaroby allaga* aa off— ttoar tka fitt irtlalo af war - aaaiaat ya*>41*1*1 ta paa* ortsr aa* military tisaipliaa (ttLsttoay's Military Loo aa* fr*aslant* - faydafe y.7*J,7Jl)» *ka fallowing aa—ta ara partiaaati

(a) Tba aaassa* vara lsaaa* fira-ams aa* *— asUsrl*a* ta ratals ya—aa*! — af aa— (H09)| —aaatn—tly toa proof fails* ta aastaia Us allagati— tod tkay on—fall/ as* aal—fall/ aal—* tksa* Haoarar* —

—Uarlt/ — glow Uaa ta aarr/ Uair firsts— fr— aa— lata ta— aaftar —/ air—>t mm a ar for as/ r*a—a	>— tk* ysoaf fall/ saataiaa toa

allapati— Uat —aruts*, oaMi—* 11a*—/* ska* Bisks* —la, Barratt* Bo&ag* tftarUa* Ta—/— a aa* Bp— *1* "utoBfbH/ aa* aalaafall/ boor aor—*•

(k) to— la — yrasf — ta Wo* oWrs ar ok— —la a— lata jaa—aal— af tk* aa—utotl—. It la aartaia* Wotrar* tkat W ka* a awl/ af aartrl*g— oklak ka *la|tikat** ta Ua —a aka asaatobla* — U* roa* prlar to Ua —a* layartor* far taa— — a—alii— ka* ka— 1—4 to tk# aa—aa/ (BUI)*	Tk* yrasf aka— o—agfkl as* valaafal yaaa— at— af aa—i

a— wrasgfsl aa* oalasfol —1—ro. to— la* tkorsfaro, a oarlaa— bat— tk# yraaf as* alia—11 a— lam Maya at.

(a) «W *11 apart!— *41*	Islaotla—11/ llsakarpa fir# ar— la

a —akl—a as* —1—fal saa—r* la — ta 6*441—, Li ala*/, Ska*, Bioko, iaatia.
CONFIDENTIAL

CD

CD
CONFIDENTIAL

48j Crneeffo v» United States 44 fad.(2nd) 852| Towhin ▼. udtod states 93 Fed.(2nd) 841}*	Tha evidence against MeKsigbt la lmsuffidsat to prove

that be was aa actual partialpant la the riot ar la Ua shooting of Cex and Slaoons, md therefore la not lagallj sufficient to support the findings of guilty ef Charges I sag II sag their spedflsatleaa.

Me&night left snap without authority with a group of soldiers she were also unauthorised to leave snap. tfcile he was unnreed the evidence is sufflalent upoa which to base the Inference that he had knowledge of the ualaeful aiesloa of his ao^paaloas asd to shnrgs hla with the knowledge that the greater vaster vote axoad. This Is evldsaae of an offense under the 96th Art 1 ale of far sad the allegations of the Specification of Charge III are sufficiently broad to peralt sueh proof*

G1BB3 was found guilty of all ehargee and spealflaatloaa eroept Speelfiaatioa 1 of the Additional Charge* For the reesoms hereinbefore stated, the Board of perlee la of the opinion that the reeord is legally insufficient te eupport the findings of Gibbs' guilt of the Additional Charge and Spealfieatlaa 2 thereof* The evldoaoo against Glhba la sufflalent to prove that he vent te toea with the axasd group end else that he was creed with e rifle* hut there le no evidence of hie conduct after he left ecntp*

There la proof that he poeeeceed e peas. However, admitting its existence, the pees did not authorise Gibbs to join this arasd expedition bound oa aa ualaeful aieeioa, knowledge of which fact Is chargeable te hie. The feet that he bore erne alee inculpates hla* The above discussion in respect to UcXnlght*a sen-partidpetion la the riot and la the shooting of the polleases le egaally applicable to the evidence against Gibbs, sad the record la legally iaauffieleat ta support the findings of guilty of Charge 1 and Charge IZ and their apod fleet leas but legally suffldent to support the findings of guilty of Charge ZZZ aad its Sposlflsatlsa*

msaumjmi	**«»«*** ^	«"»p.	***

is as proof that either bote area. There le e complete bleak la the evidence aa to their activities after leaving snap* To each any reasonably be 1 sported knowledge ef the pwrpoes ef the group* Their presence In it Increased its authors and thereby gave eld and endstance to an ualaeful aecowbly. Whether or not they ware authorised to leave eaap Is ianatcrial.

A pass is sot e license to join aa organised aob deteredaed upon mischief sad disorder. The reasoning la the sans of vaKalght (supra) soaps la the Board of Review to hold that the record aa te Kanaiag and Tilly is legally Inefficient to support the findings ef guilty of Charge Z and lie Spedflsatloa*aad Charge IX and Its sped float loan, but legally auffldaet to aapport the findings of guilty ef Charge ZZZ aad its spedfloetloa*

14* The charge sheet shows the following service ef accused1

Charlie Oeddlea la 24 years ef hs* Be enlisted at Jacksonville, Floride, 30 April 1942.

-3®-

UOrttlDENTlM.
CONFIDENTIAL

(343)

Jmh h« Uabqr 1< 22 |ur» of ««, Ho was	oft

Fort taolait Oooryio. 24 soptwfcor 194**

UtnOnr skow U JJ yooro of oyo. Ho wmo iadooftod oft Coop hmat, Toooooooo. n sopftoafcor 1942*

Ttod«7 Bioko fto 20 f#**	Ho	*M	iadaoftod oft Cklooyo,

nUaoio. 1 robruory 1945*

Hoary MotQolyM 4o 21 yooro old. Ho oalloftod oft Bollao Toxoa,

2 Hay 1942.

Hoary A&sftla lo *3 yooro old. Bo «oo ioduoftod at fori Bay#a,

Ohio, 23 Karok 1942.

Clifford Borroftft la 22 yooro of oyo. Bo oalloftod oft Orlondo Air Booo. rlorido, 1 May 1942.

Tm fwiay 1* 32 yooro of oyo. Bo wao iaduatod at Ckloayo* niiaoio. 24 Jiawry 1943*

iralo Marftlo 40 19 jw«r» of oyo. Bo «u latuoftod aft Do trait. MlOklyaa. 1 rokruary 1943*

Carl Taaayoea lo 21 yooro of aoo. Bo aallotod at Tort Kook. Koaftaoky. 4 May 1942.

«1U1« Cikka lo 20 yooxo of ayo. Bo was ladaotsd aft Chisago, Ullaola. 1 Fohruary 1943*

ftaporl 1. Hooka# lo 22 yooro of ago. Ho vao ladaotad oft ftorft coot or. Mloklfoa, 1 Ooftokor 1942.

2aooo 4. Maaalot lo 19 yooro of ogo* Bo oao ladaotod oft Coftxoift, Miohlyao, 1 rotatory 1943*

Boary f. Tilly lo 21 yoara of ago. Bo oallotod oft Fort Uaaskua. irloooo. 12 iogaaft 1942.

All woro fto amo for ftko daraftloa aad ilx aoatha. jooao kod oay prior oorrloo.

17* Tko oaarft was loyally oomoftltaftad and kad Jurladioftioa of ft bo porooaa aad ftko offoaooo. Mo orroro lajturloaaly affooting ftko owkaftaaftlol rlgkfto of ftko aoomood woro ooauiftftad durlag ftko trial, oxoopft ao korwla aoftod. Tko B00K of Barlow lo of ftko eylaioa ft baft to* rooart of trial lo loyally auffloloafti

(o) To oapporft ftko fladloyo ftkaft oooooad Coddloo. Lladooy, skow, Bioko, Aaotlo. Borrotft. £wiog, start ia, Toaayaoa aad Boyko# wars 000k guilty

- 34 -

nUiHOEMTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(345)

(k) MwiillM of U*	tturgrf	la	vteldlM	of	Artiolo

of tor Am* art initerlai ^ultostltr/ wifii—rt (if 41). Room too oooo—I Kobl«Mi 01 Mo. Mowrtog ul Tilljr Mgr aot ho ooofloo* lo . o yoattootiorr*

B. FRANKLIN RITER

.M|0 Ifroooto

CHARLES M. VAN BENSCHOTEN -----	Jklf	Afroooto

ELLWOOD W, SARGENT

J0l#0 Aiooooto



CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

1st lad.

W.D., iraseh Off iso T;iGM with R«®1,	12 FtB 1944	T#|	CtmmnAlng

Of floor, Southern Pm— Csetlsa, sew, KTOCM, APO 51V, U.e.Anqr.

1

wtajcr

amis

(36389996) | Privates rirat Clsss AU2AJ3S* S&AI (3025136), id CLXniSD JUJ&OT (Ulllllfl)l Tssbnlaal Sergeant HWhX AtfCTI* (3529060)» and Sergeant Etmt E. KUBtSEd (36531927) «U ef thw 561st (Mbum Aa—mitlta C—petty, ittaniiM 1# inrltd tw the foregoing toUlns by the Beard of Ievlev that thw wdri of trial la	wufficieet	to support tho find-

ings of pillty oa to aasused Coddles, Lindsey, Chaw, Blake, Austin, Barrott, Ewing, Martin, Terwyscn and hughes of Charges I, II and III and their respective specifications, legally sufficient to support their respective sentences, but locally insufficient to support tho findings of guilty of weld ton aoe-ioad of tho Additional Charge and Its Specification 2, Tho Board of hsviev, by its said holding further concludes that tho record la legally sufficient te support the findings of guilty of accused HcEnlght and cifaba of Charge III and its Specification, legally sufficient to support tho sentences hut legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty #f amid two accused of Cbarye I, II end their respective specifications and the Additional Charge and Its ipacification 2. As te accused, ''arming and Tilly, the Docrd cf Bedew further concludes that the record is legally sufficient to support the finding of guilty of Charge III and its Specific*-tioa, and legally sufficient to support tho sentences, with oonfinsneni la a plats ether than a penitentiary, but legally insufficient to support tho findings af guilty of add two accused of Charges X, IX and their respective specifications. I approve said holding. Under the provisions of Article of War 50$ you sow have authority to order e—oullon of the sentences.

2.	In view of the fact that as to accused ttsinight, Gibbs, arming end Tilly the record Is suffielsnt only to support the findings ef guilty of an offence under the 96th Article of bar, I suggest that their respective periods of eeaflneaant be reduced to five years. Penitentiary eenfine®eat is not authorised upon conviction ef an offence under the 96th Article of Kar. tam I further suggest that thslr respective sen Wooes te dlahonor-shle discharge be suspended until the release of cash accused frea confine* asat and that Disciplinary Training Center t 29X2 be designated as tits place ef senfinsscat.

3.	The evidence dlsclcscd that Austin and Barrett wars the laetigstors and leaders af and active participants in this distort ansi. Thslr respective sentences, which include twenty years eeaflnsnant at hard labor era therefore Justified. The evidence against Hughes proves that hs was s participant In the ristlng, the sheetl* ef the military police—at and —s a

• In the aaaa ef Privates Ci JJXIK GKKtIhS (U110767), iLm U I (31415299), niSDI BUM (36389972), JAMES a.	(36565*65),

UsMtffiKT (18082079). HtWX «. THU (18023220), TOU EftXtt (36389861), jU*T W (36565895). CAW. TEKSIOQH (15197367). sad wULIO OIBtC

- 1 •

CONFIDENTIAL


(347)

■owbor of tho group which orrtod 1tooIf and loft coop in pzrouit of oa unlawful purpooo. lioworor, it folio to oatabllah tho foot that ha woo a promoter of tho ontcrprloo. It la probahlo that tho court lapwod tho sontonoo upon Lfu£h«* ohiah lmludoa twontjr yoaro eaaflxooont at hard labor booauso ho waa a poo-oowkI—lonod of floor.	Indar tlo faota and

elrcuMrtanooo prwod with roapoot to lluchos, X do not bollwrro that tho aano punlahnont should bo inpooad upon hla aa woo adJud«od a#rain*t hurt la and '.orrott, who oonoolwwd and dirootod tho vlolocoo. I tharoforo roconnond tiiat Iiu£hoo> period of aonflnoaont bo roduood to flftoon jroara.

4.	Rhon eoplos of tl* publiohod ordar aro forwardod to thla offloo, they oiiould bo aeconpanlad by tho ferotolng holding and thla lndoroonant* Tho fllo rmabor of tho rwoord la this offloo la ITO 1052. For eooronlwMo of roforonoo ploaao plaoo that auabor la brookota at tho ond of tha ordori (ETO 1052).

E. C. aoXE H|

Brl^adlor Coaoral, laltad £ to too Angrf kmolatant Judgo idrooato Oonaral*

- a -

#(349)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD'OF REVIEW ETO 1057

united STAT e's )

) * ) )

private MICHAEL J. REDMOND ) (12065644)* Headquarters	)

and Service Company, 876th	)

Airhorhe £nginedr Aviation ) Battalion.	“	)

)

17 MAR 1944

NINTH AIR FORCE.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at AAF Station 472, APO 696, 11 November 1943* Sentencej Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for one' year. 29l2th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 5°8» U. S. Army.

OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHDTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings end sentence in part. The record has now been examined, by the Board of Review which submits this, its opinion; to the Assistant JUdge Advocate General id charge of said Branch Office.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification;

CHARGE; Violation of the 64th Article of War.

• Specification; In that Private Michael J. Redmond 1 Headquarters and Service .Company, 876th Airborne Engineer Aviation Battalion, having received a lawful command from First Lieuten-dnd SpencCr W.‘Truman, Commanding Officer,

, Headquarters and Service Company, 876th Airborne Engineer Aviation Battalion, his superior Officer, to report once each half hour (£) to the Charge of Quarters between eighteen hundred hours and‘twenty two hundred hours for seven (7) days commencing on or about October 22, 1943 a3 Company Punishment, did at USAAF '

472, APO 696, U.S.Army, on or about October 22,

1943 wilfully disobey the sane.

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(350)

He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty*of the Charge and Specification. Evidence wAs introduced of twO previous convictions b^ summary court, each for absence without leave in violation of Article of War 6l, for 79 days and for ten days respectively. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct fof one year. The reviewing authority approved the sentence but suspended the execution of the dishonorable discharge until tne soldier's release from confinement and designated the 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U.3.Army a& the place of confinement.

The result of trial was promulgated in'General Court-Martial Orders No, 7&, Headquarters'Ninth Air Force, AFO 696, U.S.Army dated 26 November 1943*	‘

5* Evidence for the prosecution established the following factsi

Accused had been restricted to camp by his company commander, First Lieutenant Spencer W, Truman, during the week previous to 22 October 1943 for the reason that he was suffering from trench mouth (R24,.25)i He was absent from reveille formation of his company at'0730 hours on 22 October 1943* " Upon being informed of such fact the company commander required accused to report to him (H10,l6), When accused at about 0800 hours appeared before Lieutehant Truman the latter asked him why he had not been at reveille, to which he replied "that his mouth hurt and he didn't feel like it," The officer answered that he should have arisen anyway and had his mouth treated by the doctor. Then he noticed lipstick on accused's face and asked him if he had been to town the night before, and in reply accused admitted such fact (RIO,16),	Upon thus accidentally discovering that accused had broken the

previously imposed restriction which was about to expire. Lieutenant Truman gave him a direct order restricting him to the company area from the tims of the order and directing him to report to Charge 6f Quarters in the orderly room every half, hour between the period of.1800 and 2200 hours each evening (R8,10,13,15,16,18),	Prior to this conversation with accused. Lieutenant

Truman had no knowledge of the breach of restriction (R24), The order was given as oo'mpany punishment under Article of War 104. Lieiitenant Truman did not at that time inform him of the duration of the restriction. Neither did he read to him Article of War 24 (RIO), nor state ‘that he proposed to punish him under Article of War 104, nor notify him of his right to appeal to higher authority (Rll-12), Sometime during the morning of 22 October, after the . order was given to accused, Lieutenant Truman drafted'a company punishment order under Article of War 104, • The First Sergeant prepared it in final form The latter called accused into the Orderly Room and presented it to him. Accused read it and said nothing, but hesitated for a time before signing the sheet. Thereafter the commander placed it in the company punishment book (R9 12-13, 17-18), The sheet (Def»Ex,A), dated 22 October 1943» reads*

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(351)

■DISCIPLINARY ACTION UJDER THE 104TH ARTICIE OF WAR The following dtiaciplinary action has been taken under the 104th Article of War in the ca^e ofi

NAM Redmond, Michael J. RAKE Private ASN#*

12065644	!

OFFENSE* Leaving Station without pass or permission,

DATE OF OFFENSE* October 21 1943•

PUNISHMENT AWARDED* Restricted to the Company Area for a period of One (i) week and to report to the C.Q,. every half hour eacn nignt from 4 1800 hrs to 2200 hrs,

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PUNISHMENT* October 22 1943.

i

/s/ Spencer W, Truman Commander,

/t/ SPENCER W. TRUMAN,

*	1st Lt, CE,

Commanding.

''STATEMENT OF SOLDIER

I havfe been advised as to my rights in * either taking company punishment or a Sumnary Court Martial and I desire to take Company Punishment as outlined above.

NAME * /a/ Michael J, Redmond

/t/ MICHAEL J. HEEMOND, Pvt, 12065644.*

Lieutenant Truman testified that the punishment did not taka effect until after the punishment sheet'was signed. He did not talk to accused concerning his right of appeal from the punishment nor was such-right of appeal brought to his attention (R13).	-	'

J	*	»	J	.	_	'

First Sergeant Joseph A. Mroz heard Lieutenant Truman give the verbal order to accused. He was Charge of Quarters on the evening of

22	October and was on duty in the Orderly Room from 173° to 2230 hours.

Accused did not report to him (R15).	1	‘

Thp next day, 23 October, accused again appeared before Lieutenant Truman sometime after 073° hours. He was asked why he had not reported the night before as ordered. He replied "that he just didn’t want to report*, but gave no other explanation. He was informed by Lieutenant Truman that he had been given a direct order which was to be 'obeyed and was asked if he/understood what it meant to refuse to obey it. Accused replied in the affirmative. The company commander explained to him what it meant to disobey a lawful order'and ordered him to report again on the night of

23	October (R21-22).' Lieutenant Truman declared that accused thoroughly

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(352)

CONFIDENTIAL

understood him (-R13)» hut he did not attempt to find out why accused refused to obey the order* because he had no "way of knowing whether he stayed in camp or what he did** It was possible.for accused to leave the post without a pass (**2jJ,	.

' On cross examination* Lieutenant Truman testified that he had known accused since he joined the organization in July'1943, that he had been a fairly good soldier and had "worked all right exeept a few times when he didn't get up for reveille*(Rl3),	-

4* At the conclusion of prosecution's case in chief, the defense moved for findings of not guilty on the grounds the record failed to prove the specif! cation'but showed that the alleged order was given as punishment under Article of War 104* and that the requirements of the regulations thereunder (See MOI.1928, par.107, pp.104-105) had not been met* It w&s argued therefore the order was null anl void (RI8-I9).

The court denied the motion (R20)# After further testimony by Lieutenant Truman* recalled by the prosecution, the defense renewed its motion, which the court again denied (R23).	*

5* Accused elected to remain silent (R20)*	*	■

Lieutenant Truman was also called as witness for the defense(R23), He admitted that when he spoke to accused at' 0800 hours on 22 October, he did not warn him of his rights under Article of War 24* Before giving the verbal order, he did not tell him that he proposed to administer punishment under Article of War 104» nor inform him of his right to elect trial by'' court-martial instead of such punishment* Accused signed the company pun-ishmeht sheet after witness had given the verbal order but before he actually gave him any punishment* His restriction did not become effective at the time of the order because he was working in the area 'at the time and could not leave it in any case# Accused had been restricted by witness for the week previous to the alleged offense because he had 'trench mbutb, and he was thus restricted before the imposition of company punishment* Until Lieutenant Truman talked to him on the morning, of 22 October he did not know that accused had broken his prior restriction, so his question as to whether he had been to town was not for the purpose of getting evidence as a basis for punishing him (R24»23)*	.

6* The elements of proof of the offense of willful disobedience of the lawful command of a superior officer in violation of Article of War 64 are j	'

"(a) That the accused received a certain command from a certain officer as alleged;

(b) that such officer was the accused's	'■

superior officer; and (c) that the accused willfully disobeyed such command. "(MCM, 1928, par, 134.b» p.149 )•

1 1|	«»

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(353)

Accused received a direct verbal order (which was reduced to writing and served on him before it became effective) from one he knew to be his superior officer, restricting him to the company area and requiring him to report once each half hour to the Charge of 'Quarters of his company between certain hours on certain successive days commencing on the day of the order. He' willfully disobeyed on the first 6f those days the part of the order requiring him to report half hourly.to the Charge of Quarters.

The question is whether this order was a lawful "command" within the contemplation of the 64th Article of War. The determination of that question involves consideration of three subsidiary questions: (1) whether the order was a legal order under the 104th Article of War, (2) whether tne punishment imposed wa3 legal, permissible punishment, and,(3) whether the subject-matter of the order brings it within the contemplation of the 64th Article of War. If the answer to any question be in the negative, the record must be held legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty of the charge of a violation of Article of War 64.

i	*	.	'

7.	' The evidence is clear that the order requiring accused to.report to the Charge of Quarters during stated hours was given as part of and in aid of the order of restriction to specified limits, and the whole was intended as conpany punishment imposed upon accused tinder Article of War 104 for the breach of the prior administrative restriction imposed because accused was suffering from trench mouth*

The first paragraph of that Article providesi

I

■Under such regulations as the President, may.prescribe, the commanding officer of any detachment, company, or higher conmand may, for minor offenses, inpose disciplinary punishments upon persons of his command without the intervention of a court-martial, unless the accused demands trial by court-martial	...

The offense committed by accused in leaving his station without pass or permission, in violation of the administrative restriction, evidence of aggravated circumstances being absent, was a minor one (MCM, 1928, par.105, p.lQ3). "Restriction to certain specified, limits for not exceeding one week" (AW 104) is specifically included in authorized disciplinary punishment. Both the offense; and the punishment, were therefore properly within the purview of the 104th Article of War.

8.	The regulations prescribed by the President for procedure under the Article are contained in MCM, 1928, par.107, pp*104-lQ5«

“ 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(354)

CONFIDENTIAL

"The commanding officer, after ascertaining to his satisfaction, by such investigation as he deems necessary, that an offense cognizable by him under A.W.104 has been committed by p member of his conznand, will notify such member of the nature of such . offense • * *, and inform him that he proposes to impose punishment under, A.W.104 as to such offense unless trial by court-martial for the same is demanded,

With reference to each offeifhe as t<^ which no demand for trial by court-martial is made, the commanding officer may proceed to impose punishment. The accused will be notified of the punishment imposed as soon as practicable and at the same time will be informed of his right to appeal."

In support of its motion for findings of ngt guilty (RI8-I9), defense contended that the order was null and void because the following requirements of the regulations under Article of War 104 were not mett (a) warning accused of his rights under Article of War 24, (b) notification to him that punishment under Article of War 104 was proposed, (c) notification to him of his right to elect trial by court-martial in lieu of such punishment, and (d) notification to him of his right to appeal from the imposition thereof to the next superior authority. Defense argued that the order was illegal on the further grounds (e) that two kinds of punishment were ordered without apportionment and (f) that the type of punishment ordered was not authorized under the article. It was also argued that the evidence failed to show willful disobedience* These arguments will be considered in the order mentioned.

.	(a)	The	evidence	is clear that accused was not warned of his

rights under Article of War 24 (RIO,24). That article provides*

■No witness before a military court, . commission, court of inquiry, or board, or before any officer conducting an investigation, or before any officer, military or civil, designated to taka a deposition to be read in evidence before a military court, commission, court of inquiry, or board, or before.an officer conducting an investigation, shall be compelled to incriminate himself or to answer any question the answer to which may tend to incriminate him, or to answer any question not material to the issue when such answer might tend to degrade him."

I

— 6 **

CONFIDENTIAL
(355)

CONFIDENTIAL

The source of this provision is the following portion of the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitutions '	*	-

■No person * * * shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself"

•	•	i

The prohibition is clearly directed against "the use of physical or moral compulsion to extort communications" from a witness before one of the named bodies or officers*(MCM, I928, par,122b,- pp.129-130; Dig.Op’.

JAG 1912-1940, sec.381, p,191-192; Holt v. United States,218 U.S. 245,

54 L.Ed.1021), It obviously has no application to accused's statements made during hi3 conversation on the morning of 22 October with Lieutenant Truman, who had called accused before him to discover the reason for his failure to stand reveille formation. At that time the commander had no knowledge of accused's violation of the restriction previously imposed oh him. * Tell-tale lipstick prints on accused's face prompted Lieutenant Truman to inquire as to whether acfcused had been to town the previous evening,' Accused admitted such fact. Considering accused's admission of his breach of restriction as a confession it was freely and voluntarily given and was free from compulsion or promise of leniency. The practice*of informing an accused of his rights tinder the 24th Article of-War prior to obtaining his confession is not mandatory in the sense that failure to give such warning forbids the admission of the confession-in evidence. Such practice is a practical method of insuring that an accused understands"his constitu-ional privilege not to give evidence against himself. If it is shown that the confession was the voluntary act of an accused, the test of its admissibility is met notwithstanding the fact that the 24th Article of War was not read or explained to accused (CM ETO 397, Shaffer). There is no legal substance to this contention,

(b), (®) Prior to the*effective time for compliance with the order to report, accused read and signed the company punishment sheet which recorded his punishment (E17), This sheet clearly apprised him both of the "Disciplinary Action under the 104th Article of War" and of his right to elect trial by court-martial in lieu thereof (Def»Ex.A).

The prior verbal order was correctly recorded on this sheet; which noti*. fied accused for the first time that his punishment was to continue for one week. It was thereby integrated or merged into the written order which became the best evidence*of its substance (Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents - Reprint - p.322). The punishment sheet notified accused of his rights to demand trial by court-martial. His written acknowledgment of such notice and of his desire to take company punishment stands unimpeached. The failure of Lieutenant Truman to notify accused of his rights at the time of giving the verbal order was rendered harmless by the subsequent written notice to accused.

- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(356)	-	-

(d) The record is clear that accused was not notified of his right to appeal to superior authority in the event he deemed his punishment unjust or disproportionate to the offense (Rl2,13), There is no Indication in the record that the punishment imposed was in fact unjust, disproportionate or otherwise improper or thax an appeal -if taken by accused as authorized would for any reason have been successful. The failure to notify him of his right to appeal from the punishment imposed therefore did not result in injury to any of his substantial rights, and-thus-did not invalidate the punishment or the order imposing it (MCM, 1928, par,105, p.104).	.

This conclusion is not at variance with the recent holdings of the Board of Review in CM ETQ 1015 Branham, and CM ETO 1366 English* It was there held that the requirements of Article of War 104'that * accused be given the option of court-martial trial and that he be informed of his right to appeal* *

■are mandatory, and the failure of the; officer imposing the punishment to notify the accused of his rights nullifies the order of punishment and renders it illegal. (Dig.OjsJAG 1912-1940, sec.

462 (5), p«370). *' * •• In the present case the record of trial is completely silent with reference to compliance with any of the requirements of the article and indicates rather clearly that no compliance was attempted. * * *• The order of punishment was, therefore, illegal."

(CM ETO 1015, Branham. par*6, p.8).

...	t	...

It is manifest that in the Branfran case total noncompliance with the requirements injured the substantial rights of the accused, which were not waived*	Particularly,is	this made plain by the fact that the

order there was to perform the military duty of going on a hike and was thus clearly improper as punishment. Here, on the other hand, there was sufficient compliance with requirements to prevent injury to any of accused's substantial rights.

*	...	i	“

- (e) Defense 's next-point is based upon an opinion of It* Judge Advocate General (JAG 250.3,. 31 Dec I924, Dig.0p.JAG 1912-1940, sec.’462

(4)*IP*369-370) holding that the 104.th Article of War may not reasonably be construed to permit company commanders to impose for the same offenee a combination of two or more punishments, each in the maximum afcount authorized, and thax if it is desired to adjudge two or more forms 6f punishment for the same offense, there must be .an apportionment* One important basis for this holding is evidently the analogy of the requirement of apportionment of punishments adjudged by summary court sentences involving deprivation‘of liberty (MCM, 1928, par.17 pp.11-12). Defense asserted that there were two punishments imposed upon accusedt (1) restriction and (2) *the extra duty of reporting*, that both may not be

- 8 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(357)'

imposed fur the maximum period of one week without apportionment and that, Since,"no 1 apportionment -was made, "the punishment is void"(Rl9).

_	4	i

The Staff Judge .Advocate's Review of this record, 26 Ifov 1943, p.2, appropriately remarksi	*

i

■However, the requirement of reporting every half hour was incidental to the . punishment of restriction'and was not a separate and additional punishment, .

It was in effect merely a method of carrying out and effectuating the punishment, analogous to the situation	,

*	•	where-a soldier would.be given a phys-

ical duty to perform as punishment and . * • then told how he was to perform it."

The time during which accused was to report suggests strongly that Lieutenant Truman was cognizant of the fact that it is dinring the evening hours that breaches of restrictions most frequently occur and he intentionally required accused to report semi-hourly during the evening in order to circumvent disobedience of. the restriction* The.periodical reporting therefore provided an effective means of ascertaining whether accused was complying with the restriction order and was not in and of Itself a punishment* It would be ineffectual.unless required conaurrently with the restriction* The fixing of the period.for reporting at every half hour far a duration of four hours each evening for seven days was wholly consistent with the ultimate purpose of the disciplinary action and it was not unreasonable* There.was but.one punishment imposed upon accused, viz* restriction* Such restriction consisted of (a) remaining in camp for seven days and (b) reporting at half-hour intervals during the four’evening hours. The latter (b).prescribed the.prpcess by which the restriction was to operate. Two punishments were therefore not imposed*

The rule requiring apportionment of punishments has no application.

(f) Defense counsel also asserted that ■reporting every half hour is not considered fatigue* and that not being a particular punishment authorized by Article of War 104,or the regulations thereunder it is illegal (R19). As pointed out above, the duty required was incidental to the principal punishment of restriction to limits and essentially a part thereof. Punishments described-in the article are not Intended to be exclusive of all others, but a punishment not.mentioned therein in order to be proper must be similar in nature to those specifically named (JAG 250.3, 13 Jul 1921, Dig.Op.JAG 1912-40, sec.462(4)» P»3&9)v Ttia duty of report- . ing periodically is not only similar in nature to restriction to. limits but,

as above indicated, is embraced therein*

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

In view of the foregoing-considerations, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the order of restriction which included the incidental requirement that accused make periodic reports to Charge of Quarters during four evening hours was legal.

The Board of Review is also of the opinion that the evidence clearly establishes willful disobedience of the order by accused. He declared to‘the company commander "that he just didn't want to report", _ This statement and attitude displays an intentional defiance of authority • and its culpatory effect is self-evident (MCU, 1928, par*134b, pp,148-1491 CM-KTO 1366 English, supra),	”

(g).The final question for determination is whether the order was a "command" within the contemplation of Article of War 64 or an order directing the performance of a "mere routine duty,"

"Failure to comply with the general or standing orders of a command, or with the Army Regulations, is not an offense ;	■*	under	this	article, but under A.W.96}

and bo of a nonperformance by a_sub-*	:	ordinate.of any mere routine duty."

(MCM, 1928, par,134^* p.149) (Underscoring supplied).

See also Winthrop's Military Law and Precedents - Reprint - p*573 ar^ Manual for Courts-Martial 1928, par,152, p,187» citing as an instance of a disorder and neglect by an officer under Article of War 98 "disobedience of standing‘orders or of orders of an officer when the offense is not chargeable under a specific article" (Underscoring supplied). The example is applicable in principle to the case of an enlisted man.

Although the fact that the order was to be executed in future does not require that disobedience thereof be charged under the 96th ■ rather than the 64th Article of War, neither does the mere fact that a specific order was given by a commissioned officer require that disobedience thereof be charged under the 64th article (TAG.250,4* 17 Tul 1918, Op,TAG 1918, Vol.II, pp.566.567). The following language from the immediately cited opinion is relevant to the discussions /

"In the case presented the soldier is charged with having disobeyed an order in future 'to be present at roll call.' * * * he can be tried and punished for failure to attend} if the failure occurred under aggravated circumstances, these may properly be alleged for the purpose of increasing the punishment,* * * the charge should not be laid as a violation of the sixty-fourth article of war, for, as indicated by the Manual, a simple offense. such as absence from a prescribed roll call.

-1CV.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(359)

can not properly be converted into a capital offense under the sixty-fourth article of war by the mere addition of a specific'order to ' attend the same. The giving of a specific order with a view of bringing the case within the sixty-fourth article of war is impliedly prohibited under the circumstances in question and, regardless of whether the disobedience was wilful and intentional, the offense should be laid under the ninety-sixth article of war, the aggravating circumstances being properly alleged if desirable.11 (Underscoring supplied).

The performance of the duty ordered here as incidental to the restriction to the company area viz, t® report-half-hourly to the Charge of Quarters, so far as the record shows, was not required by any regulations or general standing orders of the accused's organization, nor is there any*evidence in the record that the punishment of restriction automatically carried with it the duty of periodically reporting to the Charge of Quarters, Such reporting, however, is a usual and satisfactory mode of informing commanding officers though-out the Army that restricted soldiers are complying with their restriction* It is a reversal of an older well established Army custom whereby the Charge of Quarters himself made- a periodical check of restricted soldiers to assure their presence within prescribed limits. Although it* may not be a typical "mere routine duty" within the meaning of the above quoted provision of ‘the Manual for Courts-Martial, the Board of Review is of the opinion that it.is of the same general quality and nature as a "routine" duty, insofar as the applicability of the 64th Article of War is concerned, and that an order to report periodically in conjunction with restriction is therefore not a "command", within the contemplation of that Article,

The fact that in the absence of Lieutenant Truman's specific command accused was under no duty to report to the Charge of Quarters during his restriction does not bring the command within the article. The disobedience of the command was essentially a "simple offense", as would have been a breach of the very restriction of which it was a part. The maximum punishment for breach of restriction is confinement at hard labor for one month and forfeiture of two-thirds pay per month for a like period (MCM, 1928, par.lO^c, p,100). The principle of the above quoted opinion applies* a simple offense cannot properly be charged as a capital offense under the (J^b Article of War merely-because-a commissioned .officer gave a specific order to report, which order accused willfully disobeyed. Nevertheless, accused's deliberate, contumacious failure to report to the Charge of Quarters even once was reprehensible and is punishable under Article of War 96* As stated in CM ETO 1366 Englah, p»3»

-11-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

•Such conclusion does not relieve accused from culpability. * * *. His conduct in ignoring his commander's control and authority displayed such a spirit of insubordination and defiance as to constitute a disorder prejudicial to good order and military discipline under the 96th Article of War(MCM,1928, par*134b, p.litfj MCM, 1921, par.415. p.3551 Winthrop's Military Law 4 -Precedents.-‘Reprint - p*575 and footnote 26),"

In the opinion of the Board of Review, accused's deliberate disobedience of the legal order of his commanding officer to perform the duty of periodically reporting to the Charge of Quarters constituted a disorder in violation of Article of War 96 and the record is legally sufficient to support so much of the court's findings as involve guilt of such an offense* '

'Neither the designation of a wrong article,1 nor the failure to designate any article is ordinarily materiel, provided the specification allegeb an offense of which courts- • martial have jurisdiction* (MCM, 1928, par*

.28, p,l8)*- ;	:	.

* . ’	'	-7	*	>-

Furthermore, it is inconceivable -that any substantial rights of the accused were injuriously, affected by this error in pleading, within the meaning of Article of War 37 nor was he misled thereby* . He was properly found guilty of the Specification, which clearly alleged a military offense, although the Charge should have been designated a violation of the 96th rather, than .the 64th Article of War*	-	_

* ••••■*	*

9* The offense in violation of the 96th Article of War of which accused has been proven guilty, is most closely related to that of breach of restriction* Accordingly the sentence is excessive to the extent that it exceeds confinemsntiat hard labor for one month and forfeiture of two-thirds of his pay for a like period (MCM, 1928, par*104c.» p*100),	_

10* The denial by the court of the defense motion for findings of not guilty both originally and upon renewal (Rl8-20,23) was proper,

•If there be any substantial evidence which, » together with all reasonable inferences there-from and all applicable presumptions, fairly tends to establish every essential element of an offense charged or included in any specification to which the motion is directed, the motion aw to such specification will not be granted*'^MCM, 1928, par.71d, p»56j CM ETO 527*

Astrella);	-

-12-

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(361)

The prosecution prior to the motions had introduced substantial evidence fairly tending to establish every element of the offense of willful disobedience of the lawful command of a superior officer (in violation of Article of War 96)* the offense charged in the Specification, although under an inappropriate Article of War.

11.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 20 years of age, had no prior service and enlisted at New York City 19 May 1942 for the duration plus six months.

12.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. For tne reasons stated, however, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support only so much of the findings of guilty of the Charge and Specification as involve findings of guilty of the disobedience of the order charged, in violation of Article of War 96 and legally sufficient to support only so much of the sentence as provides for confinement at hard labor for one month and forfeiture of two-thirds of accused's pay for

a like period.

Advocate

Advocate

(SICK IN QUARTERS)

Judge Advocate

■13-

OONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind*

TO, Branch Office TJAG», with ETOUSA. 1 8 MAR 1944 TOj Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S. Army,

1, Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 5o£ as amended hy Act 20 August I937 (50 Stat, 724j 10 U.S.C. 1522) and as further amended hy Act 1 August 1942 (56 Stat, 732 j 10 U.S.C. 1522), is the record of trial in the case of Private MICHAEL J. REDMOND (12065644), Headquarters and Service Company, 876th Airborne Engineer Aviation Battal-

2,	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings of guilty of the Charge and Specification, except so much thereof, as involve findings of'guilty

of the disobedience of the order charged, in violation of Article of War 96, be vacated, that so much of the sentence as exceeds confinement at hard labor for one month and forfeiture of two-thirds of the soldier's pay for a like period be vacated, and that all rights, privileges and property of* which he has been deprived by virtue of those portions of the findings and sentence so vacated be restored,

3,	Inclosed is a forarof action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is a draft G<M0 for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the record of trial with required copies of GCLD.

3	Inclst

Incl.l Record of Trial Incl.2 Form of Action Incl,3 Draft GCMD

(Findings and sentence vacated in part in accordance with recommendation of the Assistant Judge Advocate General, GCIO 20, ETO, 2? Mar 1944)

ion.

Brig ad	.

Assistant Jud^e Advocate GenetiBiV
#(363)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the	1

European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1065

UNITED STATES )'

)

v.	)

)

Captain ASA G. STRATTON,	)

(0-451084), Finance Department, ) Headquarters 2nd Infantry	)

Division.	)

29 DEC 1943

1

2ND INFANTRY DIVISION.

Trial by G.C.M., convened at Armagh, Northern Ireland, 3 November 1943. Sentences To be dismissed the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates'

1.	The record of trial in the case of the officer named above has

been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations.	'	'

2.	Accused was tried‘upon the following Charge and Specification*

CHARGE* Violation of the 85th Article of War.

Specification* In that Captain Asa G, Stratton,

Headquarters 2d Infantry Division, was, at or near Belfast, Northern Ireland, on or 'about 20 October 1943, found drunk while on duty as Assistant Division Finance Officer.

He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and of the Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dismissed the service and to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due. The reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 2nd Infantry Division, approved the sentence and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to Article of War 48. The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of Operations, confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing execution thereof pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50£.

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

3.	The evidence for the prosecution was substantially, as follows: About 9*00 a.m. 20 October 1943, accused, who was assistant,division finance officer of the 2nd Infantry Division, was directed by. his superior officer, Major lenson Bethel, Division Finance Officer, to accompany him to Belfast, Ireland (R6-7)•	The two officers Were to obtain some money

and to familiarize themselves with certain new financial procedure. Major Bethel's main purpose in taking accused along was to enable the latter to learn the new'financial procedure in this theater (R7-9,13-14). Sergeants Mattson and O'Hearn accompanied them. Upon their arrival in Belfast about 10:30 a.m., accused was given permission by Major Bethel to get a shave, and was told to report to him at the finance office when he had finished (R7). When he appeared at the office about 11:30 - 11:45 a.m., he had not been shaved. For fifteen minutes there followed a discussion about financial matters by accused, Major Bethel and Major W.C.Tankersley who was on duty in the Base Finance Office (R8,22-23)..

Major Bethel testified that accused spoke more or less loudly and kept repeating himself. "He asked questions pertaining to .a matter that was taken care of and came back and asked the same question ***n.

In th6 opinion of Major Bethel' he wa3 drunk, and not in such a condition that he could perform the duty of le&rning the new procedure (R8-9).' He did not smell alcohol on his breath (R14).

* Major Tankersley testified that accused's breath smelled of alcohol and he was very loud and boisterous in his manner. "#** he didn't seem to want to listen about how finance was worked over here and had various ideas and I tried to tell him they were not true." He asked one or two questions two or three times (R23). In Major Tankersley's opinion he was under the influence of alcohol (R23,26) but he. could not say he was drunk (R25). "In my opinion if a man is under the influence of it, he doe3 not have control of his faculties" (R26). Major Tankersley was of the furtHer opinion that accused was not then in condition "to take charge of any amount of money. Not public funds, at least" (R28),

Finally Major Bethel decided there was no use in continuing and . privately told accused to stop drinking, get something to eat and then to get in the car'and stay there. He also instructed the two sergeants "to stay with him.". After Major Bethel's return from lunch, accused again appeared at the office about 2:00 p.m. His actions and appearance were the Sams', he was unshaven and in Major Bethel's opinion he was still drunk. He instructed him to return to the car (R8-10), Fifteen or twenty minutes later Majors Bethel and Tankersley went down to the street where they found accused in the car. As the two sergeants had gone to the post office, Major Bethel told accused to wait in the car until they returned and then to come to a certain bank. After'Major Tankersley had told the driver how to get there, Majors Bethel and Tankersley walked to the bank which was about four blocks away.. In Major Bethel's opinion accused was still drunk and Major'Tankersley was of the opinion that he was still under alcoholic influence. He was however, courteous to Major Tankersley (R10,

-2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(365)

14-15,23-24).	•

About 3*15 - 3*30 p.m., Sergeant O’Hearn appeared at the bank ■ and as the result of his conversation* with Major Bethel, the latter went to the Dark Horse pub where he found accused whose chin was "skinned". He was "yelling at the top of.his voice" and from his actions and speech, Major Bethel concluded that he was drunk (Ell,16,18-21),	They then drove

back to the finance office, secured some cash and returned to Armagh. Accused slept in the rear seat during the journey, and remarked when they arrived at camp "We're here, so what." When Major Bethel ordered him out of the car he walked unassisted into his quarters (Rll-12). He was on a duty status that day from approximately 9*00 a.m. to about 6:00 p.m. (R12).

A, For the defense, Technicians 3rd Grade Robert A. Mattson and John 0’Heara, Headquarters 2nd Infantry Division, testified in substance that they walked around with accused in the morning trying to find a barber shop but were unsuccessful because "We weren't too sure what one looked like over here." (R29,34-35,45)*	Before accused reported to the finance

office at 11:30 a.m., he had three jiggers of whiskey. The jiggers were of the usual size and appeared to be of a one-ounce capacity (R29,45).

They first went to "Robinson's place" where accused had two whiskies and each of the witnesses drank beer. When they left Robinson's, accused said he needed some cigarettes and entered a small store where he purchased his third drink (R40-41,43,52-55).	Both witnesses testified that when

accused was at the finance office between 11:30 a.m. - 12:00 noon, his behavior was normal, his questions were logical and pertinent to matters of finance, and in their opinion, he was not drunk .(R30-31,45-47). About noon Major Bethel .told Sergeant Mattson to go with accused and to stay with him. Mattson replied "Don't worry. I'll take care of him," meaning that he would "See to it that he wouldn't drink any more" (R39). About 2:00 p.m. accused went up to the finance office and left the two soldiers on the street with the car and driver. Accused found them gone on his return and when they returned, he admonished them for having left as he had instructed them to remain with the car. He was normal at that time and said that they would go to the bank to meet Major Bethel and obtain some money (R33,39)» On the way to the bank about 2:45 - 3*00 p.m. accused was directing the driver. They became lost and he started to leave the car to inquire the way from a passer-by. He tripped, catapulted out of the car, struck the pavement.very hard and received a cut .on the chin (R32,36-37,45,47-49,52,54).	He was then "*** more or less in a

dazed condition ***". When O'Hearn helped him to get up, his chin was cut and bleeding and he said "Take me in there", pointing to the Black (Dark) Horse public house. He sat down on a chair and took one drink, his fourth that day, while Mattson tried to stop the bleeding. O'Hearn left to get Major Bethel (R33,43-44,47).	Accused slept most of the way

home (R54)•	;

Up to the time of his fall, accused had consumed but three drinks, and had no drinks from the time he left the finance office for

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
lunch until after he fell on the pavement (R31,46). Both Mattson and O'Hearn testified that up until the time of the accident, hiB behavior had been normal, he was courteous to his superiors, he performed his duties in the usual manner, and in their opinion he was not drunk (R32, A6-A7). Mattson testified that in his opinion his dazed condition after the accident was because of the fall and not the result of drinking alcohol (R33), and O'Hearn'was of the opinion that the fall itself was caused by an accidental stumble-and not by drunkenness (RA8-49)*

Captain George Mandeville, Medical Corps, 2nd Infantry Division, examined accused in the e vening of 21 October 19A3 at the request .of two officers who occupied the same billet with accused. He found on his chin "a laceration and contusion and an irregular cut" about one and one-half inches long. Accused told him that he had received the cut as the result of an accidental fall from a vehicle the previous afternoon, that he remembered nothing until a few hour3 later, that he faintly recalled being ordered to get out of a vehicle in front of his quarters but that "**-* things were very vague to him, and he didn't know where he was or what he was doing." He felt the same way during that evening (20 October), and was taken to his quarters and put to bed. His mind was still "foggy" on the e vening of 21 October. ' Captain Mandeville's examination disclosed that accused's reflexes were very sluggish. His answers were not very clear and concise, which appeared unusual, the captain having spoken to him on several previous occasions. The rest of the physical examination was "practically negative." The captain's diagnosis was that accused "*** had a fairly severe concussion due to the1 fall and striking on the chin *+*. The history that he gave me was entirely . typical of moderate concussion of the brain. I had the impression that he was still suffering from this concussion," On the following day (22 October) his reflexes "had returned practically to normal" and his answers to questions were normal. Asked if accused's condition on 21 October could have been caused by drinking four jiggers of whiskey on'

20 October, Captain Mandeville testified "I have never seen the effects of alcohol produce that type of reaction and, secondly, I have never seen them-last that long." With reference to any possible injury to the jaw bone he testified "It would be impossible to detect that because the bone was not protruding. He didn't make any complaints." (R56-59)»

Accused, upon being advised of his rights, was sworn as witness in his own defense and testified in substance that on the morning of 20 October he and the two sergeants had traveled fiveor six blocks but could not find a barber shop. Before he went to the finance office he had three drinks. The jiggers used appeared to be of one-ounce capacity.

He then reported to Major Bethel at the finance office and was especially interested "in the gain or loss in the exchange of money." He did repeat a number of questions because he did not understand certain facts about financial procedure "over here". Major Bethel did not privately mention to him anything about drinking but had informed him that it was time to go to lunch. Accused paid for the lunches of the two sergeants and did not

- A -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(367)

drink anything at that time. Prior to the time he left the finance office, Major Bethel had said that the only thing to do was to obtain some money, that "After lunch you can kill time and come back around three o'clock to the car here." After 2s00 p.m. when it was time to go to the bank, accused went upstairs to the finance office and informed Iliajor Bethel that they were ready. He was told to return to the car and wait. He did so and discovered that the two sergeants had gone to the post office. The two majors appeared, gave the directions.to the bank and walked away. When the two sergeants returned he did not admonish them but "was peeved" because they had left when they knew that "we were due at the bank." On the way to the bank they became lost. Accused ordered the driver to stop the car’ and while attempting to get out he stumbled and injured his chin. After he fell he "was blacked-out" and did not realize until the following morning that his chin was injured. Major Bethel had taken him to Belfast in order that he could "find out the set-up of the finance office in the ETO." Asked on cross-examination, why he had stopped to get two drinks when he was unable to find the barber shop, he testified "We had just completed approximately three weeks of traveling — this isn't an excuse *— and I was feeling considerably bad and thought in order to do my work better, two or three drinks would help. I'll admit I didn't feel any better afterwards, but I don't see how they affected me". He had been an officer in the Army since 31 December.1941'(R60-61).

5.	The evidence was.legally sufficient to sustain the findings of guilty of the offense alleged. Accused,, who was assistant division finance officer had been directed hy Major Bethel to accompany him to Belfast for the purpose of learning certaip new financial procedure, and was on a duty status while in that city.

"Drunkenness upon any occasion of duty properly devolved upon an officer or soldier by reason of his office, command, rank or general military obligation"

(Winthrop*3-Military Law & Precedents -Reprint - p.613)-

is the offense denounced hy Article of War 85.

"The term 'duty' as used in this article means of course military duty. But, it is important to note, every duty which an officer or soldier is legally required, by superior military authority, to execute, and for the proper execution of which he is answerable to such authority, is necessarily a military duty" (Ibid, pp.614-615J Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, par.

145, p.159).

When he appeared at the office at lit30 a.mV he smelled of alcohol, was

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

very loud and boisterous in his manner, and kept repeating questions which had already been answered. In the opinion of Major Bethel he was drunk and not in a condition to perform his duties. Although Major Tankersley could not say that he was drunk, he did consider him under the influence of alcohol, and testified that in his opinion if a man is under such influence he does not have control of his faculties. Accused’s condition was not such that he could have been.intrusted with public funds. Major Bethel was of the opinion that he was still drunk at about 2:00 -2s30 p.m. and Major Tankersley testified that he was then still under the influence of alcohol. Major Bethel further testified that when he went to the Dark Horse "pub" about 3*15 - 3*30 p.m. he concluded from the speech and actions of accuse*?, who was yelling at the top of his voice,

that he was also drunk at that time,

1 -

"*** any intoxication which is sufficient sensibly to impair the rational and full exercise of the mental and physical faculties is drunkenness within the meaning of the Article" /All 85/ ‘ (Manual for Courts-Martial, 1928, par.14-5, p.l,6Q).

The evidence for the.defense, including that of accused, shows that he took three drinks of whiskey before appearing at the finance office at 11*30 a.m. The jiggers used appeared to be of a one-ounce capacity. He had one.drink at the Dark Horse "pub" after his fall. Both Mattson and O’Kearh testified that prior to his fall in their opinion accused’s behavior*was normal, he was courteous to his superiors, his question^ at the office pertaining to finance were logical, and he was not drunk. Mattson believed his dazed condition after the accident was occa-.sioned by the”fall and not the result”of' drinking alcohol. O’Hearn was of the opinion that the fall was purely accidental and not caused by drunkenness. The issue of drunkenness was,one of fact for the sole determination of the court and in view of the evidence, the Board of Review will not disturb its findings.

6.	Attached to the record of trial is a request for clemency by accused based, in substance, upon his past record of service for nine months as an enlisted man, three months as an officer candidate and approximately twenty-two months as an officer. Also attached at his request is a true copy of his officer's classification card W.D. AGO form No. 66-1, and a recommendation for his promotion to the grade of Major by the Commanding General, 2nd Infantry Division, dated 16 June 1943, together with the indorsements thereon.

7.	‘ The charge sheet shows that accused is 26 years of age and that he was commissioned 31 December 1941.

- 6 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(369)

8.	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, A sentence of dismissal is mandatory upon the conviction of an officer of being drunk on duty in time of war in violation of Article of War 85 (CM 255639 (1942), Bui, JAG., Oct 1942, Vol.I, No.5, par.443> p.275).



Advocate

Advocate

Advocate

7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(370)

CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. J> 9 DEC 1943 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.

1.	In the case of Captain ASA G. STRATTON, (0-451084), Finance Department, Headquarters 2nd Infantry Division, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial

is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50^ you now have authority to order the execution of the sentence.

2.	In addition to dismissal from the service the sentence imposed by the court includes forfeiture of all pay and allowances due or to become due. The sentence is entirely legal in view of the conviction of a violation of Article of War 85. An examination of cases of conviction by courts-martial of officers in the United States wherein the President has acted as the confirming authority, discloses that that part of a sentence which imposes total forfeitures has almost uniformly been remitted. Such a remission would afford the officer involved the means with which to pay his obligations which are outstanding at the termination of his service, as well as the cost of transportation to his home. If such a policy has Virtue in the United States, there is even stronger reason for it here in a foreign land distant from home. Attached to the record of trial at the request of accused is a true copy of his officer’s classification card W.D.AGO form No. 66-1, from which it appears that the character of performance of accused’s duties from shortly after the time he became an officer, 31 December 1941, until 30 June 1943 has been excellent. Also attached at his request is a recommendation for his promotion to the grade of Major by the reviewing authority, the Commanding General, 2nd Infantry Division, dated 16 June 1943 together with the indorsements thereon. The recommendation was returned without action by 2nd indorsement dated 2 July 1943 because of the absence of a position vacancy within the organization,* and the impossibility of reassignment from units alerted for oversea movement (WD, Circular #161, 26 May 1942, par.2a; WD, Circular #79, 19 March 1943, sec.II). A study of War Department court-martial orders indicates

,-rather clearly that the President would suspend execution of the sentence to dismissal - the prior record of the officer is excellent, the drunkenness was not extreme and the duty was not one which depended solely on the accused for its performance but was merely to accompany his superior to an informal conference.

Tour attention is invited to the foregoing in the event that you should desire in any way to modify your action prior to publication of the court-martial order,	•

3.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement.

- 8-

ftPNFIDENTIAL.
^CONFIDENTIAL

(371)

The file number of the record in this office is- ETO 1065. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orders (ETO 1065).'

(So much of sentence as involves total forfeitures remitted. Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 2, ETO, 7 Jan 1944)

CONFlitNTlAl

#(373)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General '<	with	the

European Theater of Operations APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1069

18.DEC 1943

UNITED STATES )

)

▼. - )

Private THOMAS (NMI) BELL ‘	)

(34327756), Company C,	)

390th Engineer Regiment (GS).	)

)

WESTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPLT, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS..

Trial,by G.C.M., convened at Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England 8 November 1943. Sentence: To be hanged by the neck until dead.

HOLDING by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1,	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review and the Board submits this, its holding, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations, . -

• «

2,	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:

CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	92nd Article of War,

Specification:	In'that Private Thomas (NMI) Bell,

Company "C", 390th Engineer Regiment (GS) did •at Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England on v	or about 3 October 1943, forcibly and feloniously, 'against her will, have carnal	.	,

knowledge of IVX DOREEN CRANFIEID.

He plehded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and the Specification, three-fourths of the members of the court concurring. Evidence c£ one previous conviction by'special court-martial for willful disobedience of, a lawful order of a non-commissioned officer in violation of Article of War 65 was introduced. He was sentenced to be hanged by the neck until dead, all members of the court concurring. The reviewing authority, the commanding officer. Western Base Section, Services of Supply, European Theater of Operations approved the sentence and forwarded

- 1 —

CONFIDENTIAL
(37A)

CONFIDENTIAL

the record of trial for action under Article of War 48* The confirming authority, the Commanding General, European Theater of’ Operations confirmed the sentence and withheld the order directing the execution thereof pursuant to Article of War 50£,

3.	The evidence for the prosecution was substantially as followsi

It was stipulated by the prosecution and defense that accused "Thomas (NMI) Bell, SN. 34327756, is a Private in Company *C', 390th Engineer Regiment (GS), and is in the'military service of the United States" (R56).	.	- -

At about 10:15 p.m. 3 October 194-3, Miss Ivy D. Cranfield, 54-Dale Street, Burton-on-Trent, England, 17 years of age,‘ was sitting on a bench in Memorial Park in that town with Kiss Dorothy Ford, 16 years old, 22 Baker Street, John V. Blackshaw, 19 years of age, 498 Anglesey Road and George A.-Price, a British soldier, 500 Anglesey Road, all of Burton-on-Trent. A colored soldier (later identified by all of the above named persons as accused) walked up and down before them three or.-four times, bent over and peered into their faces. Price remarked that the soldier appeared to be lost whereupon the accused placed his hand upon Price's arm and asked him why he thought he was lost* Mis3 Cranfield told accused, who had been joined by another colored soldier •<«*** not to get offended, that we like to be friendly with everyone." Blackshaw and Kiss Cranfield walked away but returned when they observed that Mis3 Ford and Price were still talking to the soldier. Blackshaw told Miss Ford that her father was waiting for her and the two couples went to the corner of the park, followed by both soldiers. Price and Miss Ford then went in another direction (R18,31,34*42-43)•

As Miss Cranfield and Blackshaw walked down a p&th toward Lichfield Street the "big" colored soldier (accused) followed them, but the "small one" went away. ' *At the corner accused seized Kiss Cr&nfield's arm and said "What did you mean by that?" She-replied "Oh, we didn't 1 say anything; it wasn't us." He replied "Don't you Scfeam or else I will kill you." She observed something in his left hand which seemed "more like a knife ***" (R18-19,34-35).	She tried'unsuccessfully to

seize the arm of another soldier who was passing. She then unfastened her coat and tried to slip it off and escape but he told her to fasten it, released her arm and caught hold of the collar of her dress while she did so. He then said "Come with me or I will kill you." (R19). She told Blackshaw that she did not want to go (R*37), and tried to pull away from the accused (R39). Blackshaw then observed that accused had a "slasher, cut-throat" razor of a type where the "blade part bends back into the handle." It was shining in the dark. "He had got it in his right hand between his fingers, and the blade,bent back over his fingers." He was holding the girl's arm with one hand/the razor with his other (R38,40). Two other soldiers came up and said "Hello, Bill." When accused told one of them to "take care" of Blackshaw, the two soldiers

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(375)

caught his arm and made him'walk a short distance between them. They told him that if a white man took a white woman from a colored soldier, the colored soldier would kill the white man, and offered him a cigarette. He turned around and saw that accused and Hiss Cranfield had disappeared. After the arrival‘of the two additional soldiers she had not asked Blackshaw’s assistance in any way nor had she shouted,'or made any outcry when She left* Blackshaw tried to get away from the two men but as soon as he freed one arm they seized the other. When he finally got away he did not see anyone, went home and got his "mate" who lived next door, went to the'girl's house and then to the police station (R19, 34-35,37-41)* . '

Accused took the girl down Abbey Street to the rear gates of an Inn where he said "Will you give me sugar?" When she asked him what he meant he replied "Don't try and be fumy. • Remember,11 still hdve the knife in your back." She told him to let her gd, and that she was go- -ing home. He picked her clothes up but she knocked his‘hand down. As two colored soldiers passed he put his hand over her mouth. When the girl again told him she was going home and started to walk down the street, he seized her arm and took her behind some houses on Fleet Street (H19).

There,’they met Margaret Harfield, 4 Fleet Street, Burton-on-Trent, who testified that she was'returning to her home about lo:30 -10*45 p.m. and found a colored soldier and girl in her yard. When she ordered them to leave, the girl caught hold of Miss Harfield's arm and said "Oh, save me". When Miss Harfield asked the soldier to go he "muttered a few words and refused". For about ten minutesi

"We stood there like fools, nobody speaking to anybody else; until I got tired of it, .

It would have been the simplest thing for me to wake the whole yard, but Miss'Cranfield •never offered to sing out or Bcream or anything else. ***#. She mentioned eomething . to the soldier, *1 told yCu my father would be coming,' but she did not sound too distressed at that time."

w	*

She said nothing further about saving her. Miss Harfield did not see any weapon.in'the soldier'^ hand tad he did not threaten the girl. It appeared that "Either he was holding her arm or ehe was holding his". Finally Miss Harfield "got tired of it," said that she would collect her key and told the girl that she could come indoors with her if she wished to do sc. "There was no move", so Bhe got her key and went around to her front door. Upon returning to see if they had left, she saw the couple walking up the alleyway apparently arm in arm (R46-49,51-52).

'I	’

According to Miss Cranfield's testimony, when she whispered to Miss Harfield "Help me, please" the latter told accused "Let go of her.

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(376)	; ; CONFIDENTIAL

If you don’t I will call igr father." He replied "Go ahead then; call your father." He was holding the right arm of Miss Cranfield who did not know whether or not hafitill had the weapon which she had previously noticed* She made no attempt to escape because she was frightened, and did not scream when Miss Harfield left to get her key because the latter said she was going to get her father* She did not wait for the father fee arrive because accused was gripping her arm, pulled it and she codld fjfct get away from him (R19,57-58).

Holding her all of the time, he took her from the rear of the houses into Green Street near some flood gates. Just before they reached a wall she escaped.from Mm but slipped, fell flat on her stomach and was not able to get up for a few minutes. He threatened to kill her, helped her up and put her on top of a wall the height of which did not exceed her own* He then climbed over "the wall and pulled her down* She did not jump from the wall as he was climbing over, because she was afraid of falling and he frightened her. Although she did not know whether he still had the knife, he bad previously "seemed dangerous" with it and had kept threatening her while in Memorial Park , and in Abbey Street (R19,23-24,59,61).

After they were over the wall he knocked her down on the grass and told her to get undressed. She refused, whereupon he removed her knickers and lilted up her clothes while she told.him to get*off and tried to push Mm away by his shoulders. She was so frightened that She could not scratch him. She was terrified because although he did not then threaten her, he had threatened to kill her while in the park and “by these*big gates" and she did not know whether he still had the knife. He knelt Over her, one knee on each side of her legs, unfastened his tunic, removed his belt and unfastened his trousers. When he was on top of her, she caught hold of his hair, told him to get off, that he Was hurting her. He told her to "shut up" fifed put his hand over her mouth. She did not cross her legs but'"had Ahem stiff,, straight out." He then "bad connections" with her whiletried to push him off (R19,23,59-61),	The,

following questions and answers occurred on direct examination of Miss Cranfield:

"Q. Did he. force his knees between yours?

A, les*

Q. Then did he insert his penis into your private parts?

A* Yes*

Q, How long did he continue in that position? A* A few minutes.

Q* Did he use force to do that?

A. Yes ***.

Q* Was that without your consent?

A, Yes, sir*

Q. And forcibly?

A, Yes*

Q. You never at any time consented?

A- No." (R19,20).

- 4 -

10NFIDENT1M.
CONFIDENTIAL

(377)

. Accused then dressed, told her to get dressed and. when she had done so, put her over the wall and told her to go home and to tell no one about the incident. She was crying and met two Englishmen, one of whom she asked to walk home with her "as there was a oolored soldier following me" ,(R20). She arrived at her home at 54 Dale Street about lit15 -11:20 p.m,, and called to her-father, James IT. Cranfield who found the girl in a very nervous, hysterical-condition. Her right stocking was ripped and her hand was cut with gravel rash. She told him that a colored soldier had got hold of her and dragged her along Fleet Street,’ She then nearly broke down and her father then took her to the police station (R20,28,30).	She was there examined around midnight on the night of

3 October by Dr, Francis L. Pickett, 181 Hornblow Street, Burton-on-Trent, Division Police Surgeon, His examination disclosed that she "had recently ceased to be a virgin", and that her hymen was then tom and actually bleeding, which indicated that it had been torn within a very short time. He found blood on parts of her body, her thighs, on the pubic area and on her clothes. The blood was actually coming down on her thighs art the time of his examination. In Dr. Pickett’s opinion the injury to her genitals occurred "within an hour or -so" of the examination and could have been caused by the insertion of -a male penis (R26-27).

. Prior to 8 October 1943, Miss Cranfield attended two identification parades when accused was absent and she "picked no-one out." Price, and Blackshaw attended a parade of 211 colored troops from which accused was also absent and did not identify anyone. On 8 October at an identification parade of eight colored soldiers. Miss Cranfield without hesitation identified accused who was at the end of the line on the right.-He was in working clothes, "slops", ofa greenish color and wore a hat with a brim "all the way round, a small one". * A smaller man was also then present who wore "slops". Some of the other men in the line wore their uniforms. " At the trial she also identified accused as the man whom she had previously identified on 8 October, and who had attacked her on the , evening of 3 October. When identified by Miss Cranfield at the trial, accused was sitting with other persons at the end of the court room and another colored soldier was seated by defense counsel (R20-22,53-55)*-	1	•

it the identification parade on 8 October Miss Ford also without hesitation identified accused who was the last on the right in a line of eight men. At the trial, after walking about the court toom she Identified him as the man whom she had seen at the identification parade and who "took Ivy off*. After he had been identified by Miss Ford, accused changed places with the colored soldier who had been seated by defense counsel (R31-33,53)*	_	>

On 9 October, at an identification parade of eight men, Blackshaw and Price promptly identified accused. Blackshaw testified that accused had been "the second from the end on ny right hand," and that all the- men in the line were dressed alike and wore a greenish colored working jacket-"on the top part." The man he had selected was the one who had taken Miss Cranfield away. He also identified accused at the trial. Price

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(378)

testified that at the parade accused had worn a forage cap and "the walking-out uniform" with a yellow ribbon on the left side of his jacket*

After all the colored soldiers present at the triad, had been asked to rise, Price identified accused as the man whom he had previously selected at the identification parade and whom he had seen in Memorial Park on the evening «f 3. October (R35-36,43-4A>53).	<

At the identification parade on 9 October, Miss Earfield had also without hesitation identified accused as the man whom she had seen with Miss Cranfield on the evening, of 3 October (R47,53)* At the trial she _ selected accused and another soldier and both spoke at her request. She then identified accused as the man who had accompanied the girl, but testified that she was not positive of her identification because at the parade he "stood out amongst the others more than he does now". _(R47-5l)*

Police Inspector Horace J. Brookes, stationed at Burton-on-Trent, who b«d conducted the identification parades, interviewed Miss Cranfield's father, her step-mother, the "young man with whom she had been keeping company," and Miss Ford,, and found that her reputation in the community for truth and veracity was good (R53-54>) *

A* For the defense accused, after being advised of his rights (R62)-, made an unsworn statement in substance as follows:

On 3 October he took the convoy from Sudbury about 2-2:30 p*m., arrived in Burton about 2:4-5 p.m. and walked around the. town with another soldier. They later separated and after 6 or 7:00 p.m. he went to the -park. About 9:00 p.m, he went with Private Cox to a pub named the "Star" and at closing time, about 10:30 p.m. returned to the corner where the convoy was and talked to Private. Cox. At 11:00 p.m. the convoy "packs up". He got on and returned to camp. While at Burton he saw but one girl, June, who promised to bring his watch to town on Tuesday evening or to give it to one of her friends should she not be able to bring it herself. On Monday (4- October)	he was sent	to Liverpool but was later

brought back to camp and told	to dress in	fatigues. "The rest	of	the

boys was in their O.D's."	this	girl come and had one boy speak

one or two words and then she	came to me,	and this bobby has me	to	talk

for a while.'"*"*. I did not know what it	was all about" (R63).

On the evening of 3 October, Private First Class Watie L-. Cox, Company C, 390th Engineer Regiment, saw accused on a corner near the park in Burton-on-Trent at about 6:4-5 p.m. He observed him in the pub named the "Star?;at about 10:00 p.m., and at some time between 10:30 and 11:00 p.m,-saw him again on a corner by the park "when the convoy left." - The convoy was situated about 50 yards from the park. Cox did not speak to accused who was with Private Lee White, and soldiers named De Chayser.,

Lee Colston and Lee Booker. A large gathering of soldiers was then present. About 10:4-5 p.m. Cox left on the. first convoy which took some of the men to Sudbury. It then, returned to take the rest of the soldiers He did not know whether accused returned to camp with the convoy. He saw

- 6 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(379)

a pocket-knife in accused’s possession the following day, the blade of which was "not very long," but had never seen him with a razor (R64-68).

5.	Miss Audrey June Gallagher, 52 Lansdowne Road, Swadlincote, Burton-on-Trent, a witness for the prosecution in rebuttal had had a wrist-watch mended for accused. On the evening of 3 October in Memorial Park she met accused who was alone and who said "Hello June, you have got something I want, and if you don't bring it on Tuesday you need not come to town again." Miss Gallagher "*** guessed it was gone 10 because the pubs were closed" and she saw people leaving them (R69-72).

6.	The identity of accused as the man involved in the commission of the offense alleged was clearly established by the evidence. The victim. Miss Ford, Price and Blackshaw promptly identified him both at the police parades and at the trial. Miss Cranfield, Price and Blackshaw had attended previous parades when accused was absent, and did not identify anyone. Miss Harfield also without hesitation identified him at the police parade, and she picked out accused at the trial although her identification wa3 les3 positive. The contention by accused in his unsworn statement that the only girl he saw on the evening of 3 October was Miss Gallagher, that he returned to camp on the convoy about 11:00 p.m., and that at the identification parade he "did not know what it was all about" created an issue of fact for the sole determination of the court, which determination being amply supported by competent evidence will not be disturbed ty the Board of Review (CM ETO ‘492, Lewis: CM ETO 503, Richmond: CM ETO 531, McLurkln: CM ETO 559, Monsalve).

7* Rape is the unlawful Carnal knowledge of a woman by force and without her consent (MCM., 1928, par,148&, p.165). The facts that violence wa3 Used and that the victim did not consent were most convincingly established by the evidence. The young girl, 17 years of age, was seized near the park by accused who threatened'to kill her if she screamed She saw something in his hand which appeared to be a knife or razor. Blackshaw testified that it was a razor. She tried to escape from accused by slipping out of her coat, but was ordered to refasten it by accused who shifted his grip to the collar of her dress. He told her to accompany Mm and again threatened to kill her. . She tried to pull away from Mm and attempted to seize the arm of a passing soldier. When Blackshaw had been taken away by two other colored soldiers, accused took tank the girl down the street, asked her for "some sugar", and told her to remember that he still had the knife in her back. He picked kax up her clothes but she knocked his hand down. He put his hand over her mouth a3 two soldiers passed. When she. said she was going home and started to walk away, he seized her arm and took her behind some houses where they met Miss Harfield whom she asked to save ter. After that episode, still gripping her arm he took her to the wall, where she made still another attempt to escape'but fell flat on her stomach and could not get up for several minutes. . Again threatening to kill her he put her over a wall, knocked her down on the grass and ordered her to undress.

- 7 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

When she refused, he removed her knickers himself while she* tried to push him away. He knelt over the girl, undressed himself and laid on top of her. When she seized his hair, and told him to get off, he told her to "shut up" and again put his hand over her mouth. During the sexual intercourse that followed she tried to push him away.

Miss Cranfield explained her silence before Miss Harfield after she had asked her aid, her failure to wait for the supposed arrival of Miss Harfield's father, and the fact that she did not escape'from the top of the wall when accused was climbing over it, by the fact that she was then terrified. Accused had previously threatened to kill her on two or three occasions, had what appeared to be a knife, and "seemed dangerous" with it. She did not know whether he still had it in his possession.

He was gripping her arm while they were with Miss Harfield and pulled her away after the latter’s departure. •

The circumstances to which Miss Cranfield testified fully justify the inference that she did not in fact consent and that accused had carnal knowledge of her by force.' The evidence fully warrants the findings of guilty of the said Charge and of the Specification thereunder (CM ETO 969, Davis: CM ETO 77A. Cooper: CM EtO 611, Porter).

The fact that penetration had occurred shortly before the physical examination'of Miss Cranfield during the late evening of 3 October was established by the testimony of Dr. Pickett that she "had recently ceased to be a virgin," that her hymen was then bleeding which showed that it had been torn within a very short time, and that in his opinion the injury could have been caused by the insertion of a male penis

'8.	(a) Toward the end of his direct examination of Miss Cranfield,

the trial judge advocate asked several grossly leading questions hereinbefore set forth, concerning the force used by accused and the lack of consent by the victim during the actual consummation of the act alleged. The law member cautioned him not to "lead the witness quite so much" (R19-20). No objection in this respect was entered by the defense. Accused's guilt of the offense alleged was clearly establishediby other, competent evidence, and his substantial rights were, therefore', not injuriously affected by the evidence adduced by the use of these leading questions.

(b) Ihiring the re-direct examination of Miss Gallagher by the prosecution, she testified that prior to 3 October when she first met accused he "asked me for some sugar", and that this was the reason she had not been with him since that time. On re-cross-examination she testified-that the term "sugar" was generally used in Burton with reference to sexual intercourse, that accused had then made no attempt to force her and that nothing further occurred after she refused his request (R70-71). This testimony constituted an explanation of accused's request to'Mis3 Cranfield for "some sugar" as well as evidence of a

*• 8 ••

CONFIDENTIAL
' CONFIDENTIAL

(381)

solicitation .for sexual intercourse by accused. This evidence of prior solicitation by accused of another girl was immaterial to the issue involved and should not have been admitted. However, in view of all the evidence which fully warranted the finding of guilty of the offense alleged, the admission of such evidence, although erroneous, did not injuriously affect the substantial rights of accused*

(c)	On direct examination by the prosecution, Police Inspector Brookes testified inter alia that he had made several inquiries in the community where Miss Cranfield resided and' found that her reputation for truth and veracity was good. The character of the girl had not previously been impeached but the defense made no objection with reference to the admissibility of such evidence. On cross-examination by the defense, he testified that his conclusions as to her reputation for truth and veracity had been reached as the result of inquiries made of the girl’s father and step-mother, her "young man" and Miss F.ord. Under certain circumstances it has been held that the Introduction of character testimony to support the character of an unimpeached witness is reversible error even in the absence of an objection by the defense (CM 201710, Reynolds; CM 190259, Sheffield). However, the Board of Review is.of the opinion that in the instant case accused's guilt of the offense alleged was so convincingly established by the evidence that such erroneous admission of evidence as to Miss Cranfield's reputation for truth and veracity did not injuriously affect his substantial rights (AW 37)*

9* The charge sheet shows that accused was about 23 years eleven months of age at the time of the commission of the offense* He was inducted 10 October 1942 for the duration of the war plus six months, and had no .prior service,

10,	The court was legally constituted and had jurisdiction of the person and offense. No errors injuriously affecting the substantial rights of accused were committed during the trial. The Board of Review . is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally stifficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence. The penalty for rape • is death or life imprisonment as the court-martial nfay direct (AW 92).

The sentence that accused be hanged by the neck until dead is legal (CM ETO 438, Smith; CM ECO 255, Cobb; CM ETO 969, Davis: MCM., 1928, par. 103a, p.937;

- 9.-

nnurmriiTiil -
CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

TO, Branch Office T JAG., with ETOUSA. 18 DEC 1943 TOs Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U. S. Army.

1.	In the case of Private THOMAS (NMI) BELL (34327756), Compary C, 390th Engineer Regiment (GS), attention is invited to the foregoing holding of the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and the sentence, which holding is hereby approved.

2.	When copies of the published order are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1069. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the orderi (ETO 1069).

3.	Should the sentence as imposed by the court be carried into execution it is requested that a full copy of the proceedings be furnished this office in order that its files may be complete.

, ,	...	C.	McNEIL,

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General.

(Sentence ordered executed. GCMO 28, ETO, 22 Dec 1943)
#(383)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations

APO 871

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1073

UNITED. STATES )

)

■j

Private JOHN J. SANDERS	)

(356042A6), 254-th Port	)

Company, Transportation Corps, )

)

)

)

)

■ HOLDING by the BOARD RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and

13, DEC 1943

EASTERN BASE SECTION, SERVICES OF SUPPIX, EUROPEAN THEATER OF OPERATIONS.

Trial by G.C.E., convened at Grimsby, Lincolnshire, England 8 November 194-3. Sentences Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for five years. The Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio.

OF REVIEW

SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review,

2.	Accused was tried upon the following Charge and Specification:

CHARGE:	Violation	of the 93d Article of War.

SPECIFICATION:	In	that Private John J. Sanders,

254-th Port Company, did, at or near Immingham,

Lincolnshire, England, on or about October 1,

194-3, with intent to commit' a felony, viz, rape, commit an assault upon Irene Mathews,, of Immingham, Lincolnshire, England, by wil-• fully and feloniously striking the said Irene Eathews in the face- with his fist, and by placing his hand under her clothes against .	her	person.

He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably discharged the.service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for eight years. The revie»ving authority approved the sentence, reduced the period of confine-

-1 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

meat to five years, designated the Federal Reformatory, Chillicothe,

Ohio, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record, of trial for action pursuant, to the provisions of Article of 'war 50%,

3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority.-

A. The serial number of accused a3 it appears on the charge sheet' and in the action of the reviewing authority is 356041^6. The company commander of accused. Captain Charles YY. Gilmore, Transportation Corps, 498th Port Battalion, testified that accused's serial number as shown on his service record is 3560413& (Rll). The personal clothing of soldiers were marked with the last four digits .of their serial numbers. The number on the trousers worn by accused on the morning following the commission of the offense was 41^6 (R12). . Informal inquiry made by the machine record unit, SOS, ETOUSA, to the personnel officer of the 498th Port Battalion discloses that the serial number of accused as. shown on his service record is 356041^6.■

5.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 24 years of age. Confinement in a penitentiary is authorized for the offense of assault with intent to commit rape- (18 USG>- sec.455).	As accused is under 31 years

of age and the sentence as approved:by the, reviewing authority is under ten years, the designation-of the Federal.Reformatory, Chillicothe, Ohio is correct (war Department Circular #291, 10 November 1943> sec,V,3a).

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(385)

CONFIDENTIAL -

1st Ind.

13 DEC 1Q4Q

WD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETQUSA, ■	TO: Commanding

Officer, Eastern Base Section, SOS, ETOUSA, APO 517, u.S. Army,

1,	In the case of Private JOHN J. SANDERS (356O414.6), 254-th. Port Company, Transportation Corps, attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 5U2' you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

2.	When copies of the published order, are forwarded to this office they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the record in this office is ETO 1073, For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the order: (ETO 1073).

Brigadier General, United States Army, Assistant Judge Advocate General, ; •

i

I
*
#(387)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the European Theater of Operations APO 871

HOIKING by' the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN BENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates

1,	The record of trial in' the case of the soldier named above has been examined by the Board of Review.

2.	Accused -was tried upon the following Charge and specifications:

CHARGE I:	Violation	of the 96th Article of War.

Specification 1:	In	that Private, then Technician

Fourth Grade, Jrank 0. Sussex-Loasby, 423rd Signal Company, Aviation, HQ., Eighth Air f'

Force, did, at AAF Station 586, APO 633, N.S.

Army, on or. about 10 April 1943, wrongfully,	,	•

Unlawfully and without authority, appear in the uniform of an officer of the Royal Air Force.. ■ " : '.	•	'	•

Specification 2:	In-that ********, did, at AAF

i	Station	586,	APO	633,	U. S. Army, on or about

21 July 1943, with intent to deceive a duly constituted board of officers, convened for the purpose of examining candidates for commission in the Army of the United States, officially state to the said board of officers that he had been awarded the British Distin-quished-Flying Cross for shooting down eight or nine German planes in Greece; that he had been a Spitfire pilot in Crete, Greece and

- 1 -

CONFIDENTIAL

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1092

UNITED STATES , v.

Private FRANK 0. SUSSEX-LQASBX (106009A6), 423rd Signal Company, Aviation, Headquarters VIII Air Force,

♦

22 DEC 1943

VIII AIR FORCE SERVICE COMMAND.

Trial by G.C.M,, convened at AAF Station 586, 3 November 1943* Sentencet Dishonorable discharge, total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for two years. The Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New York,
(388)

CONFIDENTIAL

Egyptj that he had been an Acting Flight Lieutenant In the Royal Air Force Fighter Command; and that he had been sent to the United States in the capacity of Flight 1 Lieutenant to do specialized work in con-' -nection with his.training; which statements were untrue and. known to be untrue by the said Private, then Technician Fourth Grade, Frank 0, Sussex-Loasby.

Specification 3:	In	that	********, did, at London,

England,' on or about-30 June 194-3, with intent to deceive Mrs. Helen Marg,*American Red Cross, and to obtain certain ribbons repre-' senting the British Distinguished Flying * * Cross, the George Cross,-the" Africa Star, the Greek Medal, and the 1939-1943 Star, wilfully, Wrongfully, unlawfully, falsely and fraudulently make and write in its entirety a certain paper in the following words, to-wit:

"EIGHTH AIR FORCE HEADQUARTERS ADJUTANT GENERALS OFFICE.

JULY 28th 1943 SUBJECT: PERMISSION AND VERIFICATION FOR F. SUSSEX-LOASBY,. T/4, 10600946 TO WEAR THE MEDALS WON BY HIM FOR SERVICE WITH THE BRITISH.

TO:	ALL CONCERNED.

1.	F. SUSSEX-LOASBY REQUESTED PERMISSION TO WEAR THE MEDALS WON BY HIM FOR SERVICE WITH THE BRITISH DURING THE YEARS 1940 TO 1943.

2.	INVESTIGATION OF THESE CLAIMS THROUGH AIR MINISTRY, ROYAL AIR FORCE WHITEHALL SHOWS THAT THIS SOLDIER IS ENTITLED TO WEAR THE FOLLOWING MEDAISs

1. - GEORGE CROSS	’

2.	DISTINGUISHED FLYING CROSS 1

3.	AFRICA STAR	•	•	•1

4.	1939-1940 STAR

HE IS ALSO ENTITLED TO WEAR THE GREEK MEDAL C(F VALOUR AND THE E.T.O.

2. PERMISSION IS GRANTED.

/s/ James B. Gordon JAMES B. GORDON LT.COL., A.G.D."

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

(389)

Specification 4:	In	that	********f did, at the

Princess Gardens Red Cross Club, London,

England, on or about 30 June 19A3, with intent t9 deceive Mrs. Helen Marg, American Red Cross, and to obtain ribbons representing the British Distinguished Flying Cross, the George Cross, the Africa Star, the Greek Medal, and the 1939-19A3 Star, wilfully, unlawfully, wrongfully and fraudulently offer and deliver to the said Mrs. Helen Marg as true and genuine, a certain paper in words as follows:

"EIGHTH Am FORCE HEADQUARTERS ADJUTANT GENERALS OFFICE.'

JULY 28th 1943 SUBJECT:	PERMISSION AND VERIFICATION FOR F.

SUSSF.X-LQASEY, T/A, 10600946 TO WEAR THE MEDALS WON BY HIM FOR SERVICE WITH THE BRITISH. .

TO:	ALL CONCERNED.

1.	F. SUSSEX-LOASBY REQUESTED PERMISSION TO WEAR THE MEDALS WON BY HIM FOR SERVICE WITH THE BRITISH DURING THE YEARS 1940 TO 1943.

2.	INVESTIGATION CF THESE CLAIMS THROUGH Am MINISTRY, ROYAL Am FORCE WHITEHALL SHOWS THAT THIS SOLDIER IS ENTITLED TO WEAR, THE FOLLOWING MEDALS:

1.	GEORGE CROSS

2.	DISTINGUISHED FLYING CROSS

3.	AFRICA. STAR

' ■ 4, 1939-1940 STAR .

HE IS AISO ENTITLED TO WEAR THE GREEK MEDAL OF VALOUR AND THE E.T.O.

2. PERMISSION IS GRANTED.

/s/ James B. Gordon JAMES B. GORDON LT.COL., A.G.D." which paper he, the said Private, then Technician Fourth Grade, Frank 0, Sussex-Loasby, well knew to be falsely made.

Specification 5:	In	that	»»«*»»*«,	did,	at	AAF

Station 586, APO 633,.H. S. Army, on.or about 18 May 1943, wrongfully, unlawfully and with intent to deceive a duly constituted board of officers, convened for the purpose of examining ■ candidates for commission in the Amy of the , United States, officially submit to the said board of officers a certain written personnel placement questionnaire, dated 18 May 1943,

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL
(390)

CONFIDENTIAL

and signed by the said Private, then Tech- ! nician Fourth Grade, Frank 0, Sussex-Loasby, which said questionnaire contained statements that he, the' said Private, then Technician Fourth Grade, Frank 0. Sussex-Loasby, had been a pilot officer in the Royal Air Force; and that he had attended Christ College,

Oxford University, for two years, which statements were untrue and known by the sai^

Private, then Technician Fourth Grade, Frank,

0.	Sussex-Loasby, to be untrue. _	-

Specification 6* In that ********, did, at AAF . Station 586, APO 633, U. S. Amy, on or abcut 2i July 1943, wrongfully, unlawfully and without authority, wear certain Royal Air Force insignia and badges, to-irit; R.A.F.

Pilot’s Badge and R.A.F. Medallion, on his service uniform.

He pleaded not guilty to the Charge and to all specifications thereunder.

He was found guilty of Specifications' 1, 3» 4> 5 and 6 of the Charge, guilty of Specification 2 of the charge except the Words "that he had been an Acting Flight Lieutenant in the Royal Air Force fighter Command and that he had been sent to the United States in the capacity of Flight Lieutenant to do specialised work in connection with his training", of the excepted words, not guilty, and guilty of the Charge.	No evidence of

previous convictions was introduced.	He was sentenced to be.dishonorably

discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for two years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, designated the Eastern Branch, United States Disciplinary Barracks, Beekman, New fork, as the place of confinement and forwarded the record of trial for action pursuant to the provisions of Article of War 50£.	.	.

3.	The Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings of guilty, and the sentence as approved by the reviewing authority.

4.	The charge sheet shows that accused is 25 years of age and that he enlisted at London, England, 16 March 1943 to serve for the duration of the war plus six months. He had no prior service. On 10 May 1943 at Lichfield, Staffordshire, England he was naturalized as a citizen of the United States pursuant to the authority contained in section 702, Nationality Act of 1940 as amended (Petition No. BB-441). It is provided in paragraph 8b, sec.II, Circular #72, ETOUSA, 9 September 1943 that execu-tion of a sentence to dishonorable discharge will be ordered only when

- 4 -

^NFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL •

(391)

accused has been convicted of an offense which renders his retention in the service undesirable £r when he has been sentenced to a term of not less than three years confinement. The offenses of which accused has been convicted are of a nature as not to make his retention in the service desirable.

Judge Advocate

Advocate

/Judg« Advocate

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

1st Ind.

TO), Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA. 22 DEC 1943 TOx Commanding General, VIII Air Force Service Command, APO 633, U.S. Amy, through the Commanding General, ETO.	-

1.	In the case of Private FRAHX 0. SUSSEX-LQASBT (10600946), 423rd Signal Company, Aviation, Headquarters VIII Air ^orce attention is invited to the foregoing holding by the Board of Review that the record of trial is legally sufficient to support the findings and sentence, which holding is hereby approved. Under the provisions of Article of War 50£, you now have authority to order execution of the sentence.

2.	Recommendation has been made to the Theater Commander- that an'

inquiry be made to determine whether this soldier obtained U.S. citizenship by means of false and fraudulent representations and whether action should be taken with respect thereto.	It is therefore recommended that

the prisoner be held within the theater until decision with respect to . this matter is taken.

3.	When copies of the published Order are forwarded to this office,

they should be accompanied by the foregoing holding and this indorsement. The file number of the redord in this office is ETO 1092. For convenience of reference please place that number in brackets at the end of the ordert (ETO 1092).	•	_	'	* *

Brigadier General, United States Army, * ) Assistant Judge Advocate General.
#(393)

Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General •with the European Theater of Operations APO 871.

BOARD OF REVIEW ETO 1096

UNITED STATES	)

)

.	v.	)

)

Private DAVID L. STRINGER	)

(34154267), Provisional Head-	)

quarters and Headquarters	)

Squadron, 2915th Combat Crew	)

Replacement Center Group (Bomb). )

11- FED 1944

VIII AIR FORCE COMPOSITE COMMAND Trial by G.C.M., convened at Army Air Force Station 231 > APO 639,

12 November 1943• Sentences Dishonorable discharge (suspended), total forfeitures and confinement at hard labor for four years. 2912th Disciplinary Training Center, APO 508, U.S.Army.

OPINION by the BOARD OF REVIEW RITER, VAN EENSCHOTEN and SARGENT, Judge Advocates.

1.	The record of trial in the case of the soldier named above has been examined in the Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General with the • European Theater of Operations and there found legally insufficient to support the findings and sentence. ' The record has now been examined by the Board of Review which submits this, its' opinion, to the Assistant Judge Advocate General in charge of said Branch Office.

2.	Accused was tried upon the following charge and specifications

CHARGE:	Violation	of	the	64th	Article	of War.

Specifications In that Private David L. Stringer,

Provisional Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron,

2915th Combat Crew Replacement Center Group (Bomb),

having received a lawful command from Captain Kenneth

K.	Wallick, Air Corps, his superior officer, to perform

the duties of Mess Sergeant, did, at Army Air Forces

Station 238, APO 639> on or about 21 October, 1943>

wilfully disobey the same.

1

He pleaded not guilty to and was found guilty of the Charge and Specification. No evidence of previous convictions was introduced. He was sentenced to be dishonorably.discharged the service, to forfeit all pay and allowances due

-1-


fiUNFIDENTIAL

(394)

or to become due and to be confined at hard labor at such place as the reviewing authority may direct for fbur years. The reviewing authority approved the sentence, suspended the execution of that portion thereof adjudging dishonorable discharge until the soldier's release from confinement and designated the Disciplinary Training Center No.2912 as the place of confinement.

The result of trial wqs promulgated in General Court-Martial Orders No. lf>, Headquarters, VIII Air Force Composite Command, Station 231,

APO 639, 20 November 19U3*

3* The evidence for the prosecution shows, in substance, that about three weeks prior to 21 October 19U3, General Hill had made an inspection of the kitchen at Arrny Air Force Station 238, and told a Sergeant Flinn, the commanding officer of the station. Captain IVallick, and the mess sergeant, that the kitchen -was "in a sad mess" and that if conditions did not improve within a few weeks the captain was to reduce Sergeant Flinn and assign someone more capable (R 7-8, 12). About 11 A.M. 21 October, Sergeant Flinn was relieved as mess sergeant and about 11:30 A.M. that day Captain Wallick instructed the mess officer to put accused "on orders as mess sergeant". At that time he was a sergeant and was working in the kitchen as a cook. He was supposed to report that day as mess sergeant for the noon meal (R 7, 11,£U). As the result of certain information Captain Y/allick later ordered the mess officer to have accused report to him. When he did report at.2 PiM. 21 October the captain told him he would "have to be mess sergeant", that he was the highest ranking non-commissioned officer qualified for the position and that "we didn't have anyone else". He asked him why he did not want to take that-responsibility Accused replied that he "wouldn't take the job tinder that set-up" referring presumably to the•"disorganization of the mess", and that "he didn't like the deal that Sergeant Flinn got." Captain Wallick told him that it was his responsibility to take any job assigned, that the job had to be done, and that in both his opinion and that of the mess officer he was capable of holding the position. He was further told that there was a possible promotion if he did good work. The captain informed him that a man who could not accept responsibility could not remain • a non-commissioned officer on that post. Accused replifed that he had been made a sergeant by a responsible officer and that he thought he had deserved it. The captain told him that he should take the job and do it as well as he could. He sent him to see a Captain Bartos who "understood the mess conditions and I thought he.might be able to induce the man to take the job" and show him that it could be done (R 7-9,ll,U6-U7).

Accused went to see Captain Joseph A. Bartos, medical officer at Station 238, who had requested that accused be sent to him "to discuss the problems of the mess from a medical standpoint" (R 13). Captain Bartos testified that "Problems in the mess were inadequate personnel and some of these personnel not doing their jobs satisfactorily". The job as mess sergeant would be a "tough" one, and the captain himself "probably would have hesitated to accept it". In his opinion adequate personnel for the mess were not being supplied. During their discussion of the mess problems accused told Captain Bartos that he did not want to be mess sergeant because when the Commanding General visited the mess hall he wanted to know why there

CONFIDENTIAL
Confidential

(395)

•was not adequate personnel, and the former commanding officer of the base had replied that adequate personnel urere available. Accused stated that "if the Commanding Officer of. the base did not back the enlisted men any more than that he did not want the job in the mess hall" (R li|-lf>).

About $ P.M. accused returned to see Captain ¥allick and said that his mind was made up, that his final answer was that he would not take the job as mess sergeant (R 9>k7,5>1)» The captain asked accused to "put himself in my position." Accused said "I would make him a private" (R kh 51). When accused was asked if he knew what refusing an assignment mould mean, he replied "Yes, court-martial" (R 9,12,l;7,!?2). Captain Yifallick did not tell him what the charges would be.if he were tried (R.55).

Accused was not discourteous or disrespectful (R 10). He did not report to the mess hall and was placed under arrest later that afternoon. He was not immediately put under arrest because Captain ViTallick could not conceive that he would refuse'the assignment and it took the Captain "a while to make up his mind." It was up to accused to decide and the captain expected he would return and say "I«m sorry" (R 10-11,k9,52-53). About LOO-500 men were fed in the mess. Although accused had. been assured of all cooperation possible, he was not promised additional cooks or"K.P.'s" because no cooks were available (R 50-51,S3)•

Captain Wallick further testified that at no time had he given accused a direct order to assume the job as mess sergeant (R U6,U?,S1) but that it was clearly understood that he was to be mess sergeant (R l;6,Sl).

"Q:	Do	you think the accused was offered an alternative of

being busted instead of taking the job as mess sergeant?

A:	Yes,	I would say he was because I informed him that

unless he accepted responsibility he would have to be a private (R 10).

**■***#■

Q: Were you trying to persuade the accused to take the job rather than order him to take it?

A:	I don’t see the-difference.

Q:	(repeated)

- A:	'Ho,	I would not say I was.

Q: And yet, you asked him to take it, explaining the job and the possibilities of promotion?

A: I didn't ask him. I told him he was to be mess sergeant.

I told him he would have to be. (R 10-11).	#	*	•#■	*

. Q:	Did	you indicate anything which might lead him to

believe that the reduction to private was the alternative to not taking the job?

Ai There wasn't any alternative about it. It was the idea

-	1 of taking the thing or because of his attitude in not

wanting to take the responsibility, and of course, court-martial if he didn't report to work.	The	last	i

time he left his final answer was that he would not take' the job and would rather be court-martialled than take it.

In my mind, he was a private pending court-martial (R I4.8).

-3-

C0NFIDENT1AL

If
CONFIDENTIAL

(396)

.###**■

Qx Y/hy, then, did you reduce him from sergeant • to private?

Ax Because he didn't want to accept the responsibility of being a sergeant in refusing this assignment.

Q: In view of that you were going to- try the man and in ^addition you took it upon yourself to punish the man?

A: In my mind it is not the same offense (R U9). '«•***'*■

Qx What did you tell the accused?

Ax It wasn't a matter of choice. He was supposed to be mess sergeant. I told him that if he didn't he would have to be reduced. It wasn't the idea of saying you can take either one.

Qx Wasn't that the general trend of the conversation?

Ax It was that he would have to be reduced.

Q* That would be the end of it?

Ax That was only half of it. He would be reduced and then court-martialled." (R 51-32).

U. For the defense. Staff Sergeant George E. Henson of accused's organization, testified that on 21 October 19U3 he was on duty at the service club where his function was to *show the fellows a good time"•

He had been trained to be a cook and mess sergeant and had the highest average of his class at school. He was not being used as a mess sergeant on 21 October (R 20-21). Staff Sergeant Arthur W. Hill, also of accused!s organization, testified that he had attended the cooks' and bakers' school at Canp Shelby, Mississippi, where he had "pretty good grades", and was made first cook. He had been a mess sergeant for two and a half years but on 21 October 1?U3 was duty sergeant in the squadron. His work consisted of general duty and."picking up.butts in the road".

He was supposed to have a job in the mess hall.but it had not opened at that time (R 22-23). '

First Sergeant Harold Mansky of accused's organization had known accused about two months and was of the opinion that he was an e xcel lent soldier (R 2U)•

Recalled as a witness for the defense. Captain ¥allick testified that as commanding officer of Station 238 his duty was to see that the men were housed, clothed, and fed (R 17). He had.sent accused to see Captain Rartos because the latter knew the difficulties concerning the messing situation and had a good idea how to correct them. ' He thought that Captain Bartos could show accused the point of taking the position, how to do the work, and would prove to him that it was not too big an undertaking (r 18).

Accused testified that on 21 October, Lieutenant Jacobs, the mess officer, told him that the mess sergeant had been relieved and that they had decided accused was the man for the job. Accused was then first cook

-U-

COHFIDLNTIKL
CONFIDENTIAL

(397)

and a sergeant. He replied that he did not think he -was the man for the job, that other men could operate the mess better and that he would rather they got someone else. They discussed mess problems and the lieutenant said he would go to headquarters to see what he could do about getting another man, but that accused'might have the job forced on him (R 26,30-31,^2). Accused went to his barracks and was later told to report to Captain Yfallick who informed him that the mess sergeant had been relieved, that they believed accused was the man for the job and had decided that he was to be mess sergeant (R 26, 31,3L,39). The captain discussed the faults of the former mess sergeant^ and asked if he could improve them. Accused replied that he did not think so, that they needed more cooks and equipment, that he was not the man for the job and could see no use in starting when he could not hold the position. Captain:Wallick did not agree nor did he promise extra cooks, "K.P.1s" or equipment. He asked accused if he wanted to keep his stripes. He replied that he did and was asked how long he had been a sergeant. He said for about a year and believed he deserved the promotion when it was made. The captain thens aid "'Tfe have decided you are to be mess sergeant and think you are the man for the job.

There must be some other reason why you don't want to take this job. Don't you like this outfit?'" Accused replied that he could not say that he did, that he wanted a transfer and would have requested it sooner but did not think he would be successful. He was then ordered to report to Captain Bartos (R 26,31-32,3U,39-L0)•

He spent about an hour with Captain Bartos discussing mess problems and told the captain that he was not the man for the position and could see no use in starting when he could not hold the job. He said that he. would rather be relieved of his stripes and go on general duty.- Captain Bartos said that he would either be mess sergeant or walk out the door a private (R 26,35).'

■When he returned to Captain Y/allick's office, the latter said "I guess you have decided to take over as mess sergeant here". He replied "Not exactly". The captain said "Put yourself in my place; what would you do if you had a man and he didn't want to be mess sergeant?" Accused replied "I would figure he didn't want the responsibility and I would break him and put him t o general duty in the outfit", whereupon Captain Wallick said that he would court-martial and "break" accused and that he would "walk out the door a private". Accused left, went to his barracks and about an hour later was placed under arrest-and taken to the guard house (R 27,29,32-33,36,39-Ll).

He further testified that at no time had Captain Wallick given him a direct order (R 29,33), nor had he (accused) definitely stated at any time that he would not be a mess sergeant and that his decision was final (R 32-3k,38). There was no definite understanding or anything final about the matter (R 38,1+3). Accused did not think that he had disobeyed a direct order, but that he had a choice of being mess sergeant or being "busted to private and put on general duty" (R 27,29-30, 3L-35,37,L3-LL). Tdhen he finally left Captain Yfellick's office he
CONFIDENTIAL

(398)

believed that he would be made a private anrf placed on general duty.

He thought that he could not be reduced without a court-martial proceeding tinless the basis for the reduction was inefficiency, and that he would be court-martialed because he preferred to be a private rather than a mess sergeant (R.29t-30,33-3L,36-39,Ul-LL)* He would have gone back to cook on his next shift if he had not been placed under arrest.

He had been on duty from lls30 A.M. to about 11 P.M., 20 October, and from 3 A.M. to ls30 P.M., 21 October. He was on duty when called to Captain Wallick' s office, and had been on duty about 2h hours with but a four-hour rest (R.2?). He had been "pulling a shift" with about 700 men to feed, and was assisted by one cook with very little experience and a "K.P." who was also cooking. He was tired, sleepy and his mind was in a turmoil (R.26). He was classified as a cook and had never been classified as a mess sergeant. His classification card (W.D., A.G.O. Form No.20) was admitted in evidence over objection by the prosecution (r.23-29; Def.Ex.A.)'

5.	The question presented for consideration is whether accused received and willfully disobeyed the lawful command alleged.

"Mere instructions would not in general fulfill the definition of an order or ’command*, in the sense of the present Article; nor would a mere statement of his wishes and views by his superior, however pointedly impressed upon the inferior in his entering upon the duty" (Wintkrop1 s Military Law and Precedents, Reprint, p.f>7U). (Underscoring supplied).

"It is also agreed by military writers that the

' * command* contemplated by the article is an express and personal one, that is to say an order 1 of a specific character, addressed or given to the ■ accused in person" (Ibid; p.573) (Underscoring supplied).

"It is agreed by the authorities that the offense specified in this part of the Article is a disobedience of a positive and deliberate character.

* * * the disobedience must be willful and intentional" (Ibid; p.5>73).

"The willful disobedience contemplated is such as shows an intentional defiance of authority" (MCM,

1928, par,13U b, p.lL8).

Although Captain Wallick testified that he told accused he would "have to be' mess sergeant" he admittedly did not at any time give accused a direct order to assume the duty 0f mess sergeant. No order detailing

-6-

C0NFIDENT1M-
(399)

CONFIDENTIAL.

him had been issued. He informed him that he was the highest ranking non-commissioned officer available for the position and that they did not have anyone elsej that he should take the job and do as well as he could. There was a possible promotion if he did good work. He sent him to Captain Bartos who, he believed, would be able ’'to induce the man to take the job". Asked whether he had attempted to persuade accused to assume the duty rather than order him to do so. Captain YiTallick testified "I don't see the difference." vfhen accused returned to interview him a second time, the captain said that a man could not remain a non-commissioned officer on the post if he did not accept responsibility. He asked accused what he would do if he were in his position and accused replied that he would reduce such a soldier to the grade of private.

The captain informed him that he would have to be reduced. He did not immediately place him under arrest because he could not believe he would refuse the assignment and it took Captain Wallick "a while to make up his mind". He expected him to return and say he was "sorry". Although accused, in response to the captain's question said he realized it would mean a court-martial if he refused the assignment, there was no evidence to indicate that accused was given to understand that Captain Wallick was referring to his willful disobedience of a direct order to assume the duties of mess sergeant.

The captain did not say -what the charges would be and accused testified that he thought court-martial proceedings were necessary to accomplish a soldier's reduction in grade unless such reduction was made upon the basis of inefficiency.

Viewed in its entirety the record of trial fails to disclose, that accused was given "an order of a specific character". On the contrary the evidence shows that Captain Wallick had two discussions with accused during which he "pointedly impressed" upon him his "wishes and views" and attempted to persuade him to assime the duties of mess sergeant instead of giving him a definite, express order to assume such duties. The captain's testimony that accused "clearly understood" that he was to be mess sergeant was merely a conclusion by the witness, unsupported by the evidence (22 C.J. sec.5?2, p.li.97, footnote 16; 22 C.J. sec.603> P.5'11?, footnote 39; P*5>l6, footnote h2; Stephenson v. Atlantic Terra Cotta Co., 230 Fed. lli,20). Similarly, the evidence fails to show that accused was guilty of disobedience "of a positive and deliberate character" exhibiting "an intentional defiance of authority". The evidence submitted by the prosecution fuilly justified accused's stated belief that he actually had a choice of becoming mess sergeant or being "busted to private and put on general duty".

-7-

C0NFIDENT1AL
CONFIDENTIAL

Uoo)

£. For the reasons stated, the Board of Review is of the opinion that the record of trial is legally insufficient to support the findings of guilty and the sentence.

-8-

CONFIDEHTIAL
1st Ind.

IVD, Branch Office TJAG., with ETOUSA H FEB 1944 TO: Commanding General, ETOUSA, APO 887, U.S.Army.

1.	Herewith transmitted for your action under Article of War 5oJ as amended by the act of 20 August 1937 (50 Stat. 72Uj 10 USC 1522) and as further amended by Public Law 693> 77th Congress, 1 August 19U2, is the record of trial in the case of Private DAVID

L.	STRINGER (3lil5U267), Provisional Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 2915th Combat Crew Replacement Center Group (Bomb).

2.	I concur in the opinion of the Board of Review and, for the reasons stated therein, recommend that the findings of guilty and the sentence be vacated and that all rights, privileges and property gf which accused may have been deprived by reason of such findings and sentence so vacated be restored.

3.	This accused was charged with a capital offense, the proof of which requires wilful disobedience of an order and an intentional defiance of authority. I find proof of neither element in the evidence. No order detailing accused as Mess Sergeant was issued and no command given that he assume the duties thereof. Over a period of 3j hours, the accused discussed with two captains their desire that he be Mess Sergeant and his disinclination to be. There was talk of reduction 'fbr/not assuming responsibility but none of disobedience of orders. The accused was not disrespectful. The facts in evidence show no basis for the serious charge of willful disobedience of orders, which is too often made without intelligent consideration.

k.	Inclosed is form of action designed to carry into effect the recommendation hereinbefore made. Also inclosed is draft GCMD for use in promulgating the proposed action. Please return the record of trial with required regies of GCMO.

Brigadier General, United States ’ Amy, •Assistant Judge Advocate General^...

3 Incls:

Incl 1. Record Of Trial. Incl 2. Form of Action. Incl Jb*Draft GCMO.

(Findings and sentence vacated. GCMO 12, ETO, 22 Feb 1944)

